Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I congratulate all the other Members who have made their maiden speeches this evening , from the whiskey and sausages of Glasgow West to the pottery of Stoke - on - Trent South , the young people of Croydon East , and the beautiful tour of North East Hampshire , which I have driven through many times . I pay particular tribute to my hon . Friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for delivering an incredibly powerful and moving maiden speech with no notes — very impressive . It is very relevant to join in this debate on the role of technology in public services following several conversations that I had during recess about the challenges of connecting Devon and , in particular , the South Hams and Dartmoor to high speed internet . It is something that I will be coming back to with the Minister . If we are going to support rural communities , small businesses , the self - employed and those studying online , we have to get them connected . We must also be aware of the danger of digital exclusion . For all those who can not use computers , particularly older people , we must ensure that there is always a decent working offline alternative to apps and QR codes . I am very proud to say that I am the first non - Conservative MP to be elected in my large rural constituency for over 100 years . It had a very short flirtation with Liberalism in 1923 when Henry Vivian was elected . Sadly , he lasted only 10 months before being replaced by another Conservative . Vivian was the founder of the co - operative housing movement , and it is a real shame that he did not last a bit longer , because we could really do with his legacy in South Devon . It is a spectacular part of the UK , from the art deco hotel sitting atop Burgh Island to the eastern slopes of Dartmoor , the Rivers Dart and Avon that meander south to the sea , the headland at Berry Head where you can spot dolphins playing in the water , and the rolling hills and hedges of the South Hams . It is the place I made home 17 years ago , after leaving London . I took my two small daughters to Devon to be nearer family after the death of my husband from cancer in 2003 , and it is great that they are both with us today . Being widowed at 34 with very young children is a brutal experience , but it taught me many things — the power of community , the value of friendship and family , the strength of support from kindred spirits . Here I pay tribute to the Widowed and Young organisation , which I chaired for a couple of years . Hanging out with a bunch of widows may not sound like much fun , but being with people who understand what you are going through at a difficult time , and who can truly empathise , is transformational . I will always champion community and support groups who bring people together . Leaving London for a rural community was a bit of a gamble . Busy London play parks were replaced by empty fields , and I was almost the only single parent in the school . I did feel like an outsider . We had no internet connection , and had to dial in through a satellite dish on the roof , which drove me completely insane ; but we got some battery hens and watched in awe as their feathers grew back and they began laying eggs again . I learned to manage a septic tank and oil - fired central heating . I navigated the complete lack of buses and the absence of breakfast and after - school clubs , which was not easy for a single working mother . Rural life poses many extra challenges , so three years later we moved to Totnes , I met my lovely second husband , and this special town became home . It is often described as alternative , but I prefer to say that it is a place that knows the meaning of the word “ community ” . It is a place where it is quite normal to question the idea that a planet with finite resources can support infinite growth , a place where the seriously wealthy question why they are not being taxed more to support those who have less , and a place where radical thinking is seen as a really important thing to do . My constituency is where Agatha Christie lived by the River Dart , and further downstream , naval recruits are trained at Britannia royal naval college . We have wild camping on Dartmoor — long may it continue — paddleboarding in the bay , surfing on the south coast and the world ’s biggest pirate festival in Brixham , as well as ancient family farms , stunning beaches and thousands of miles of hedgerows . We also have the revival of the cirl bunting , a success story championed by my predecessor but one , Sarah Wollaston , who sat on several Benches in this House . Once near extinction , there are now over 1,000 cirl bunting pairs singing from the farmland of South Devon and Cornwall because of the environmental work done by farmers in my constituency . It is proof that farming for food and restoring nature can go hand in hand . We have one of the country ’s largest fish markets at Brixham , as well as shell fishermen , oyster farms and scallop divers . An energetic conversation about sustainability and the long - term future of the fishing industry is being had , and I will work with fishers and scientists , so that we can create policy here that ensures that we can continue to fish while protecting stocks for the future . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anthony Mangnall , who worked hard to establish the National Independent Lifeboat Association . Together with the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , it provides an incredible emergency service for all those who work or play on the water . On land , we have hundreds of hospitality businesses that offer a brilliant experience — I recommend hon . Members all come and try them out — but they have taken a massive hit over the past few years , and they really need our support now to survive . However , there is so much more to South Devon that does not make it on to the postcards or the chocolate boxes . We have Britain ’s most expensive seaside town in Salcombe , where an average house costs £ 970,000 , but not far away we have left - behind neighbourhoods where people struggle to make ends meet on low - paid seasonal work and live in poor - quality housing . This disparity of wealth can be hard to get your head around . I would like us to think really hard and creatively in this place about how we can help even out our society , so that no one is raising a disabled child in a mould - filled home within sight of a millionaire ’s yacht in the harbour below . The lack of public transport leads to loneliness and isolation , and adds to the lack of opportunities for our young people for work and socialising . We must invest in it as a public good . Our schools in Devon are hugely underfunded compared with schools across the UK , which impacts the life chances of our children . We have communities that have been hollowed out by second homes to the extent that schools are closing , village shops have long gone and the last pubs are closing . Families are being evicted so that landlords can turn their homes into short - term holiday lets , and second homes registered as businesses are causing our council to lose out on millions of pounds a year of desperately needed resources . We must close this loophole . We have businesses struggling to get staff because no one can afford to live nearby and there is no social housing , yet developers build and build to support the immigration of wealthy retired people from other areas of the country . We have more than met our housing targets , but we are still in a desperate housing crisis . The solution is not just build , build , build ; it is about land prices , what we build and where , and who buys those homes . What we need is social housing , more community land trust schemes , innovation and ideas for breaking out of the developer - led disaster we are in . We are the home of innovation and good ideas , and I would like to quickly highlight one organisation , LandWorks . I declare an interest , as I worked there for six months in 2018 . LandWorks is an inspirational prisoner rehabilitation charity that I hope the new prisons Minister will soon visit , given the crisis we are in nationally . Its amazing work has been shown to cut reoffending rates and reintegrate prisoners into society . We also have a growing cluster of high - tech photonics companies attracting talent from home and abroad and providing highly skilled jobs . That is exactly the kind of modern manufacturing that this country desperately needs , so it was disappointing to hear last week that these companies are missing out on partnerships , funding and investment because of Brexit . One company is weighing up whether it will move its headquarters out of the UK into the EU . Members will not be surprised to hear that as a former Member of the European Parliament for the south - west who got involved in politics in June 2016 , I will continue to try to find ways to mitigate and lessen the damage Brexit has caused , particularly to my shellfish exporters , my food and wine importers , our musicians , and all those sectors that are struggling to find staff . South Devon is a constituency of many parts , and it is right at the top of the list of the most challenging constituencies in which to deliver Lib Dem leaflets—[Interruption . ] Well , maybe my hon . Friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) beats me on that . I want to finish by expressing my heartfelt thanks to an incredible group of volunteers who supported my campaign , many of whom were not Liberal Democrats , and who were lending their vote and their time and their shoe leather because they wanted to be represented by a different kind of voice . I would also like to thank my dad , with us today , who never tired of campaigning to help me get here — and I would just like to say that I am really sorry I did n’t campaign harder for you in 1983 , when you came quite close to sitting on these Benches . I could not have done it without them all , and it is the honour of my life to represent them and all the residents of South Devon . I will work hard every day for them , for our environment , for our planet , and for a different kind of politics .