Much of the content of Lord Darzi ’s report has been known for some years . None the less , today ’s report is a scathing summary of the complete devastation that the Conservatives have wrought on our health services and on the health of our communities . We Liberal Democrats have long argued that we need to shift healthcare from hospitals to high streets , and from treatment to prevention , because doing so improves health outcomes and saves taxpayers ’ money . It is a win - win . But the report is long on diagnosis and short on prescription , so may I invite Ministers to read our fully costed manifesto to fix public health and primary care by recruiting 8,000 GPs , ending dental deserts , boosting public health grants by £ 1 million , implementing our five - year plan to boost cancer survival rates , and putting a mental health expert in every school ? Does the Secretary of State accept that there is an elephant in the room : social care ? Will he meet me to discuss the Liberal Democrat plans for social care , starting with free personal care ? This bold idea would prevent many people from going into hospital in the first place , as well as enabling them to be discharged from hospital faster . Does he accept that it is a truth universally acknowledged that we can not fix the NHS if we do not fix social care too ? As for the dire state of our hospitals and primary care estate , well , the Conservatives have left it to fester like a wound . Will the Secretary of State give the green light to hospitals that are ready to rebuild , such as mine in west Hertfordshire ? Will Ministers look to reform outdated Treasury rules that are preventing our integrated care boards and hospital trusts from spending and investing their funds in the GP practices and hospitals that we need ? This Government say that they want growth . Well , health and wealth are two sides of the same coin , which is something the Conservatives do not understand . If Labour wants economic growth , fixing our health and social care must be its top priority . And it must be a priority without delay . On Tuesday , I was at the Birmingham children ’s hospital . Will the Secretary of State join me in congratulating the excellent staff on their work and their commitment to each individual patient who goes through the door ? That evening , I was also with a local GP at Sparkbrook health centre whose frustration was with the outdated computer system . If he could get one message across to the Secretary of State , it would be that he has to reboot his computer numerous times a day . Will the Secretary of State put resources in to ensure that the IT is up to date ?