I am afraid I do not have time , because I want to respond to the issues that the right hon . Member for Belfast East raised . The right hon . Member rightly highlighted that a number of troubles - related cases have a cross - border dimension , including the Kingsmill murders , which are an appalling example of the pain and suffering inflicted on civilians during the troubles . It is right to acknowledge that the implementation of truly holistic legacy mechanisms , which can provide families across the UK and Ireland with as much information as possible about the circumstances of their particular case , will require the co - operation of both the UK and Irish Governments to facilitate the disclosure of information held by authorities in both jurisdictions . This Government consider the Irish Government to be an essential partner in the process of seeking a way forward on legacy issues that is human rights compliant and can command public confidence across communities . Turning to the Omagh bombing inquiry , last month ’s commemorative hearings were a painful reminder of the impact of cowardly terrorist actions on communities and families . Victims do not need hearings , inquiries or commemorative days to know that ; they live with it every day . The Secretary of State has received political assurances from the Irish Government on their full co - operation with the UK inquiry . That is important and should be welcomed . The Irish Government are currently working at pace to determine how to facilitate that in practice through a memorandum of understanding . The right hon . Gentleman ’s comments in the Chamber today will not have gone unnoticed . The details of those arrangements are ultimately a matter for the inquiry , which rightly is independent of the Government , but I agree with him that they should provide for the greatest possible level of co - operation from Irish authorities . The Government look forward to seeing those details in due course . In the meantime , our focus remains on ensuring that the UK inquiry that has been established can successfully fulfil its terms of reference . I close by remembering all those who have been killed by cowardly terrorist acts . I pay tribute to everyone who is carrying on — not getting over what happened , but getting on and working around the gap of the people they lost , or of their own life that they had before , despite the grief that can engulf them . They are getting up every day when it is not getting easier , remembering people who should be here and are not . They are not giving up on getting answers and justice for their relatives , families and friends . In the memory of all who have died , we will keep taking action against terrorism and for peace and justice . We will remember . Question put and agreed to . House adjourned . Tuesday 12 March 2025 Division 114 ( cols . 960 - 962 ) Add to the Noes : Division 115 ( cols . 964 - 966 ) Add to the Noes : Division 116 ( cols . 968 - 970 ) Add to the Noes : Division 117 ( cols . 978 - 981 ) Add to the Noes :