The shadow Foreign Secretary has set out in eloquent terms what is effectively the policy of the Government and the entire House . He chided the Government for not offering a statement today , but I suggest that the Government have not been slow in coming to the House with frequent statements and responses to urgent questions , and we will of course continue to do so . The right hon . Gentleman asked about the Government ’s discussions with Prime Minister Netanyahu . The Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , the entire Government have been very clear about our advice to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and I have set it out repeatedly in the House . When I last answered questions from the right hon . Gentleman here , I made very clear our position on Rafah as well . He asked about the consequences and how we deal with those . Britain and our allies , through the United Nations — and I remind him that Britain was pivotal in securing Security Council resolutions 2020 and 2028 — are working together to try to improve what is a terrible situation , and we will continue to do just that with , I hope , the support of the whole House . First , I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests . This has been a typically excellent debate . Across the House I think there is an understanding that , after two or three decades of relative tranquillity , we are living with the threat of proximate warfare . The price of freedom is of course eternal vigilance , and that is generally agreed across this House , as evidenced by the contributions made , such as that of my right hon . Friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I think my right hon . Friend was arguing , slightly cheekily , for defence spending of 44 % of GDP , although that was probably in the event of total war , which of course we all want to avoid . His proposition was that we should never have taken a peace dividend post the cold war , but I think that is a little harsh on our predecessors . However , plainly the situation has changed , and we must change with it . I hope very much that Europe will follow our 2.5 % commitment , meaning £ 140 billion more for our collective defence against the primary aggressor . I would have been very disappointed had my right hon . Friend not rehearsed the arguments for a continuous at - sea deterrent , which of course is 16,000 tonnes of eternal vigilance . The right hon . Members for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) and for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who speak for the Opposition , I think gave us the commitment we were seeking , which is to match the Government ’s cash spend . However , the right hon . Gentleman was a bit flaky , if I may say so , on the 2.5 % , or at least on when it would be achieved and how they would pay for it . That became clear from the intervention by my hon . Friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , for which I am grateful . The right hon . Member for Wentworth and Dearne is indeed an honourable man and I like him very much , but I am bound to point out that his assurances that Labour is the party of defence run contrary to its management until very recently by a right hon . Member who had very different ideas indeed . The right hon . Gentleman was very keen to recommend the right hon . Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) to the British public in 2019 as the Prime Minister of this great country and to serve under his leadership for nearly five years , but heaven loves a sinner brought to repentance . I am also bound to point out that defence is not short of reviews , and another review would mean obfuscation . I suggest that is the very last thing our armed forces need right now . At best , it would introduce a huge measure of uncertainty when we simply can not afford it . The Chair of the Select Committee on Defence , my right hon . Friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , rightly reflected on what 2.5 % across the NATO alliance would mean . Where Britain leads , our European allies must follow : we are not in this on our own . He gave a magisterial romp around the geopolitical , societal and economic contribution of the whole defence enterprise . The hon . Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) got tied up with nomenclature . There are other ranks in the Army and the RAF and ordinary seamen in the Navy , and I think that was the essence of his confusion . Either way there is nothing ordinary about the men and women of our armed forces , and either way he was rightly concerned about the junior ranks . I recall a previous conversation we had in this place during which he confused a pay award this year for them , which is 9.7 % , with the 5.5 % for senior officers ; I assume he is happy with that . He wanted more Europe in defence , which I think means more European Union . He may have missed , for example , the Lancaster House treaties , the attendant A400 M programme and unmanned aerial vehicles , and he may also have missed the joint expeditionary force . We are indeed co - operating wherever we can with our European friends and neighbours . My right hon . Friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) gave a very detailed and authoritative account of kit , majoring on air defence . He catalogued some of the procurement issues that have historically bedevilled the defence enterprise , but he resisted reference to his favourite defence contractor , for which we are very grateful . I know that he supports the integrated procurement model announced in February . The right hon . Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , to whom I always listen with a great deal of interest , rightly highlighted industrial skills . I have said it before but I will say it again : the Ministry of Defence is this country ’s No . 1 employer of apprentices , and we are exceptionally proud of that . He rightly implied that the men and women of our armed forces — both civilians and people in uniform — have a choice . Of course they do , and they very often exercise it ; our economy is the better for it . I make no apology for injecting trades and skills into our armed forces and our defence enterprise ; it benefits us all . The trick is retaining those people and then perhaps pulling them back in at some future date . He will be familiar with that , because he has read the Haythornthwaite report . My hon . Friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) rightly highlighted the perils of coalition , but to be fair we have got the Liberal Democrats to commit to CASD , and maybe even CASD with missiles — for that , the hon . Member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) has done us a great service today . The points that my hon . Friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex made about leadership were extremely well made . The hon . Member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) spoke about the recruitment and retention issues that the armed forces certainly have , in common with just about all our allies . Meanwhile , we deal with all our defence commitments . We are rightly proud of the men and women who serve . The right hon . Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) was fighting a bit of a rearguard action on defence spending , which the Opposition Front Benchers now say they support . If he wants to disregard the costs for Ukraine , he needs to have a word with his colleagues . Given that I need to face down Putin ’s naked aggression , he might as well carve out other parts of the defence budget and say that they do not count either . I am sure he would not want to do that . My hon . Friend the Member for North Wiltshire spoke about votes in Parliament and about warfighting , and I agree with his analysis . We forget — do we not?—what a grave mistake the Iraq war was . Having been heavily involved with the effort and the process , I entirely agree with his remarks about LGBT people and I salute the role that the all - party parliamentary group for the armed forces played early on in that process . The hon . Member for Tiverton and Honiton spoke about a variety of subjects . Interestingly , at the end of his remarks he committed his party to , I think , a regular Army of 82,000 . I am not quite sure where that figure came from , but I assume we will hear about the attendant spending pledge in due course — or maybe not . My hon . Friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) talked about apprentices , defence - related jobs and R&D. That is not surprising given that Abbey Wood in Filton puts his constituency at the beating heart of the defence enterprise ; he is a constant advocate for both . The hon . Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) is a strong advocate for the defence enterprise in Northern Ireland , and his part in particular . He rightly highlighted the further opportunities in Northern Ireland , which I know about full well as a former Northern Ireland Office Minister and Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . My hon . Friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) spoke of enablement and logistics — of interoperability , modularity and plug and play — from a position of real expertise as a former senior logistics officer . My hon . Friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) rightly highlighted the changing nature of warfare . Mass matters , but so does tech , as we can see with potential game changers such as DragonFire . I am not sure I agree with him about A400 M , but we can perhaps have a debate later over a cuppa or some such . In our more dangerous world , the Government believe that spending 2.5 % of GDP on defence must become the minimum NATO benchmark as Putin ramps up his wartime economy as part of a network of authoritarian states that are attacking our allies and interests . NATO must respond , and I am proud that the UK is leading among European allies through our defence reforms and our 2.5 % commitment , verifiable against NATO rules , our £ 75 billion cash boost for defence from a flat cash baseline , and our additional package of support for Ukraine . As Putin lays waste to his military and recklessly exposes his strengths and weaknesses to general view , we watch , we learn and we act . Our defence reforms are making our industrial base stronger . Our investment in our conventional forces , stockpiles and innovation makes us more capable and more lethal . Our investment in our alliances is making us and our friends more secure . Our investment in our independent nuclear capability will always make adversaries back off . I finish by paying tribute to the men and women of our armed forces . They are the best of us , and as we enter a new age of high - tech warfare we need to remember that , day in , day out . It is our people and those who support them who put the great in Great Britain . On that at least I hope we can all agree . Question put and agreed to . Resolved , That this House has considered defence .