I beg to move , That leave be given to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to review the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; and for connected purposes . From time to time , this House has asked itself the question : what value do we place on support for the victims of violent crime ? I believe that this is the right time to ask ourselves that question again . Victim support can take many forms , including non - financial measures . We have got better , but we must get better still , at recognising the lifelong impact that violent crime has on a person . Victims would benefit from better sharing of information about support services , both public and voluntary , and the processes for accessing NHS diagnostic and therapeutic support . That information sharing should start with the police , the ambulance services and the Crown Prosecution Service , and I was pleased to hear recently from the CPS west midlands region about the enhanced victim support that is now in place . Nevertheless , there will always be cases in which financial loss has occurred , or financial remedy is a necessary or otherwise appropriate means of providing some measure of justice for those who have suffered assault . I think that Members in all parts of the House would wholeheartedly endorse the principle that , whenever possible , the perpetrators of violent crime should pay the costs of restitution . Indeed , it is a welcome and remarkable achievement that the amount recovered to fund support services through the victim surcharge — first introduced in 2007 — has nearly doubled over the last four years . However , the criminal injuries compensation scheme exists because some offenders lack , or can not be proved to possess , the assets or revenue to pay those costs — the so - called straw men of the justice system — and in still more cases , the perpetrators of violence are never identified . Crime statistics notoriously do not tell the full story , but in the West Midlands police force area , nearly one in five violent assaults are not prosecuted because no suspect can be named . I commend the chief constable , Craig Guildford , and the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , for their success in increasing the number and the share of identified assailants , but the point stands . The animating force behind the current criminal injuries compensation scheme was a Birmingham magistrate and the first secretary of the Howard League for Penal Reform , Margery Fry , who led a campaign in the 1950s under the clarion call of “ Justice for Victims . ” She argued that criminal injuries could not be narrowly considered to be a private matter between the assailant and the victim . Just as we provide for each other in times of sickness through national insurance , so too , she argued , a duty is owed by the state when it fails to prevent one citizen from injuring another . In her words , “ the State … can not disown all responsibility for its occasional failure to protect . ” Today that same principle is set out by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority , which says that payment is sometimes needed as an “ acknowledgement of harm and an important gesture of public sympathy . ” The criminal injuries compensation scheme is now an integral part of the justice system , even if it is — as the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . Friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , put it last week — something of a “ Cinderella service ” . Nothing that I say today is intended as a criticism of the staff of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; they work hard in difficult circumstances , given that staff numbers have fallen by a fifth since the current iteration of the scheme was introduced in 2012 . The civil service people survey shows that they take pride and find professional fulfilment in their work , and , as someone who once received an award from the scheme , I remain grateful to them . Important and positive improvements have been made since , six years ago , the Victims ’ Commissioner published an excoriating report . Let me say at this point how welcome it is to see the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , in her place . I know that she cares deeply about victim support as well as having specialist knowledge of this issue , and I am grateful to her for her thoughtful responses and conversations about it . However , it is also clear that failings remain within the system , as we heard last week when Members across parties contributed to a debate in Westminster Hall . I draw particular attention today to the delays that too many applicants still experience ; a lack of signposting or integration with wider support services , and a general lack of public awareness of the scheme itself ; the trauma of dog attacks on postal workers and other victims by new and banned breeds , the victims of which are mostly ineligible for compensation following changes to the scheme in 2012 ; the recommendations of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse ; a supposedly £ 500,000 - a - year hardship fund , established 13 years ago , that is now essentially a dead letter — the criteria are so restrictive that no payments have been made from it in the last seven years ; and the tariff system itself , as many serious and life - changing injuries are not covered at all . It is true that the upper cap on the scheme is generous by international standards , but the lowest limit of £ 1,000 has been frozen in cash terms since 1992 . My hon . Friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) referred in this place to annex B of the scheme , which defines a “ crime of violence ” as including “ a sexual assault to which a person did not in fact consent ” . Those are words and ideas from another age . Even if the courts now adopt a more informed interpretation , the continued presence of that definition can only cause harm , and it must be struck from the scheme . These problems — and I believe , on the basis of my own casework and that of other Members , that they do to an extent persist — impose a heavy burden on the victims of crime . Like some other Members , I bear the physical scars of violent crime , alongside other scars of a different and more subtle kind . I have spoken previously , in another debate , about that experience , and I do not intend to repeat those words today . It is enough to ask hon . Members to take it on trust that delays , the seemingly arbitrary rules of the scheme , the manner of the communication , and , sometimes , poor decision making can add to the sum of the pain that victims feel — a pain that can only be partially outweighed by the release that the end of the criminal injuries process brings . A perpetrator might evade justice , but it is part of the nature of the trauma response that , at a slight or unexpected prompting , a victim may be compelled to relive that crime again and again . That is why the Victims ’ Commissioner has called for an overarching review of the scheme to establish “ whether it actually fulfils its stated remit : to acknowledge the harm suffered by victims of violent crime who have no other access to compensation , and to provide redress as part of a just and compassionate response . ” That is what the Bill , which I beg leave to introduce , would achieve . The legislation would set out a simple requirement for a fundamental review , and for Ministers to report back to the House with proposals for further scrutiny and debate . I can not stand here and claim that easy answers exist to all these questions . Although I note that , to the best of my calculations , the cost of the scheme appears to be falling in real terms , we live in straitened financial times . That is why it is better for reform of the scheme to be carried out in a deliberative manner , on the basis of accurate and recent evidence , and with the needs of victims as the primary concern . To that end , I take heart from the Minister ’s statement that the Government do not plan changes to the Scheme “ at this time ” . She went on to say : “ The clear message to me is that we need change , and I will be considering how Government can best provide the support that victims need and deserve . ” I also take heart from the Prime Minister ’s statement of personal support for the victims of violent crime when this matter was raised with him a fortnight ago by my hon . Friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) . This issue touches the lives of people in every one of our constituencies . No amount of money can return someone to their mental or physical state prior to an assault , but a well - functioning , fair and compassionate scheme can bring victims some measure of justice . Question put and agreed to . Ordered , That Laurence Turner , Charlotte Nichols , Michael Wheeler , Andy Slaughter , Warinder Juss , Antonia Bance , Chris Bloore , Catherine Atkinson , Kevin McKenna , Mark Sewards , Tim Roca and Alistair Strathern present the Bill . Laurence Turner accordingly presented the Bill . Bill read the First time ; to be read a Second time on Friday 13 June , and to be printed ( Bill 231 ) .