These orders are technical in nature and relate to the capacity of UK Export Finance — which is the operating name of the Export Credits Guarantee Department , the UK ’s export credit agency — to support current and prospective exporters . As hon . and right hon . Members will know , UK Export Finance has a mandate to support UK exporters with finance and insurance , helping them to compete internationally . UK Export Finance , or UKEF for short , was established more than 100 years ago and is the world ’s oldest export credit agency . Its support has proved crucial to British exporters throughout its existence . UKEF helps exporters to win international contracts , to fulfil export orders , to create jobs and to get paid . Last year it provided £ 8.8 billion in finance to support UK exporters , and supported up to 41,000 jobs around the UK as a result . Some 88 % of the businesses it supported last year were small and medium - sized enterprises . UKEF provides its finance at no net cost to the taxpayer ; in fact , it generates a return for the Exchequer , with £ 705 million returned to the Treasury over the last three years . The Export and Investment Guarantees Act 1991 , as amended in 2015 , confers powers on the Secretary of State to provide finance that is conducive to exports , and to provide insurance in connection with overseas investments . Those powers are exercised and performed through UKEF . Subject to some limited exceptions , section 6(1 ) of the Act imposes a limit on the aggregate amount of financial commitments that can be made under those powers — in other words , the total size of UKEF ’s financial portfolio . At present , the limit stands at £ 67.7 billion , expressed in special drawing rights . Special drawing rights are an accounting unit for international transactions and were created by the International Monetary Fund ; their value is based on a grouping of five major currencies , including pound sterling , the US dollar and the euro . The sum equates to approximately £ 70 billion at today ’s exchange rates . Why are we seeking an increase ? Well , the current limit has been in place since 2015 , and UK Export Finance ’s portfolio size is now drawing close to it . Were UKEF to reach its limit , it would have to pause its vital financing activity , which , in turn , would cut off its support to prospective exporters . I should note that , in practice , the size of UKEF ’s portfolio is subject to a limit set by the Treasury . This limit , called the maximum commitment limit , must be lower than the statutory limit set out in legislation . I am therefore proposing these statutory instruments to increase the commitment limit in section 6(1 ) , and to avoid the future risk of having to turn away applications for UKEF support . Section 6 of the Act enables the Secretary of State , by order , to further increase the limit by up to £ 5 billion . The power to make such an order may be exercised on up to three occasions and has not been used before . I am therefore seeking approval of these three orders together , which would allow us to increase UKEF ’s statutory commitment limit by £ 5 billion per order , for a total of £ 15 billion . Inflation since the limit was last amended and the increasing transaction sizes that the Department is supporting mean that the Department is now approaching that legal limit . Laying these SIs together is about future - proofing UKEF and giving it sufficient legal capacity to provide certainty for its customers . Again , it is a decision for Treasury Ministers to then confirm the actual commitment limit under which the Department operates . After they have come into force , the three instruments taken together will increase the commitment limit to 82.7 billion special drawing rights , which converts to around £ 84 billion pounds at today ’s exchange rates . UK Export Finance is delivering an ambitious five - year business plan that aligns with this Government ’s missions , supporting growth and prosperity for UK exporters and their communities across the country , and doing so at no net cost to the taxpayer , but its ability to do so will be at risk without the additional legal headroom that these instruments provide . These changes will therefore allow UK Export Finance to continue meeting its mandate in supporting exports and driving growth — something that I am sure those in all parts of the House will join me in welcoming . I commend these orders to the House .