I have to acquaint the House that this House has this dayattended His Majesty in the House of Peers , and that His Majesty was pleased to make a Most Gracious Speech from the Throne to both Houses of Parliament , of which I have , for greater accuracy , obtained a copy . I shall direct that the terms of the Gracious Speech be printed in the Votes and Proceedings . Copies are available in the Vote Office . The Gracious Speech was as follows : My Lords and Members of the House of Commons It is mindful of the legacy of service and devotion to this country set by My beloved Mother , The late Queen , that I deliver this , the first King ’s Speech in over 70 years . The impact of Covid and the war in Ukraine have created significant long - term challenges for the United Kingdom . That is why my Government ’s priority is to make the difficult but necessary long - term decisions to change this country for the better . My Ministers ’ focus is on increasing economic growth and safeguarding the health and security of the British people for generations to come . My Government will continue to take action to bring down inflation , to ease the cost of living for families and help businesses fund new jobs and investment . My Ministers will support the Bank of England to return inflation to target by taking responsible decisions on spending and borrowing . These decisions will help household finances , reduce public sector debt , and safeguard the financial security of the country . Legislation will be introduced to strengthen the United Kingdom ’s energy security , and reduce reliance on volatile international energy markets and hostile foreign regimes . This Bill will support the future licensing of new oil and gas fields , helping the country to transition to net zero by 2050 without adding undue burdens on households . Alongside this , my Ministers will seek to attract record levels of investment in renewable energy sources and reform grid connections , building on the United Kingdom ’s track - record of decarbonising faster than other G7 economies . My Government will invest in Network North to deliver faster and more reliable journeys between , and within , the cities and towns of the North and Midlands , prioritising improving the journeys that people make most often . My Ministers will strengthen education for the long term . Steps will be taken to ensure young people have the knowledge and skills to succeed , through the introduction of the Advanced British Standard that will bring technical and academic routes into a single qualification . Proposals will be implemented to reduce the number of young people studying poor quality university degrees and increase the number undertaking high quality apprenticeships . My Ministers will take steps to make the economy more competitive , taking advantage of freedoms afforded by the United Kingdom ’s departure from the European Union . A bill will be brought forward to promote trade and investment with economies in the fastest growing region in the world . My Ministers will continue to negotiate trade agreements with dynamic economies , delivering jobs and growth in the United Kingdom . My Ministers will introduce new legal frameworks to support the safe commercial development of emerging industries , such as self - driving vehicles , introduce new competition rules for digital markets , and encourage innovation in technologies such as machine learning . Legislation will be brought forward to support the creative industries and protect public interest journalism . Proposals will be published to reform welfare and support more people into work . My Government will promote the integrity of the Union and strengthen the social fabric of the United Kingdom . Working with NHS England , my Government will deliver its plans to cut waiting lists and transform the long - term workforce of the National Health Service . This will include delivering on the NHS workforce plan , the first long - term plan to train the doctors and nurses the country needs , and minimum service levels to prevent strikes from undermining patient safety . Record levels of investment are expanding and transforming mental health services to ensure more people can access the support they need . My Government will introduce legislation to create a smokefree generation by restricting the sale of tobacco so that children currently aged fourteen or younger can never be sold cigarettes , and restricting the sale and marketing of e - cigarettes to children . My Ministers will bring forward a bill to reform the housing market by making it cheaper and easier for leaseholders to purchase their freehold and tackling the exploitation of millions of homeowners through punitive service charges . Renters will benefit from stronger security of tenure and better value , while landlords will benefit from reforms to provide certainty that they can regain their properties when needed . My Government will deliver a long - term plan to regenerate towns and put local people in control of their future . Legislation will be brought forward to safeguard the future of football clubs for the benefit of communities and fans . A bill will be introduced to deal with the scourge of unlicensed pedicabs in London . My Government is committed to tackling antisemitism and ensuring that the Holocaust is never forgotten . A bill will progress the construction of a national Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . My Government will act to keep communities safe from crime , anti - social behaviour , terrorism and illegal migration . A bill will be brought forward to ensure tougher sentences for the most serious offenders and increase the confidence of victims . My Ministers will introduce legislation to empower police forces and the criminal justice system to prevent new or complex crimes , such as digital - enabled crime and child sexual abuse , including grooming . At a time when threats to national security are changing rapidly due to new technology , my Ministers will give the security and intelligence services the powers they need and will strengthen independent judicial oversight . Legislation will be introduced to protect public premises from terrorism in light of the Manchester Arena attack . My Government will deliver on the Illegal Migration Act passed earlier this year and on international agreements , to stop dangerous and illegal Channel crossings and ensure it is the government , not criminal gangs , who decides who comes to this country . My Government will continue to champion security around the world , to invest in our gallant Armed Forces and to support veterans to whom so much is owed . My Ministers will work closely with international partners to support Ukraine , strengthen NATO and address the most pressing security challenges . This includes the consequences of the barbaric acts of terrorism against the people of Israel , facilitating humanitarian support into Gaza and supporting the cause of peace and stability in the Middle East . My Government will continue to lead action on tackling climate change and biodiversity loss , support developing countries with their energy transition , and hold other countries to their environmental commitments . The United Kingdom will continue to lead international discussions to ensure that Artificial Intelligence is developed safely . My Government will host the Global Investment Summit , the European Political Community , and the Energy Conference , leading global conversations on the United Kingdom ’s most pressing challenges . I look forward to welcoming His Excellency the President of the Republic of Korea and Mrs. Kim Keon Hee for a State Visit later this month . My Government will , in all respects , seek to make long - term decisions in the interests of future generations . My Ministers will address inflation and the drivers of low growth over demands for greater spending or borrowing . My Ministers will put the security of communities and the nation ahead of the rights of those who endanger it . By taking these long - term decisions , my Government will change this country and build a better future . Members of the House of Commons Estimates for the public services will be laid before you . My Lords and Members of the House of Commons Other measures will be laid before you . I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsels .