It is truly an honour to rise as the new Member for Fylde to give my maiden speech in this historic House , the global seat of democracy for centuries before us . I have chosen to make my maiden speech today because , having served as Lancashire ’s police and crime commissioner until May this year , it felt incredibly poignant to speak in the home affairs debate . It gives me the opportunity to thank the police officers and staff I worked with for their bravery , their sacrifice and their service . During my term of office , I was truly inspired by so many people at Lancashire Constabulary . I threw myself into a job I loved , spending as much time on the frontline as I could . I learned the most about policing when there were no cameras around , sat in the back of carriers on the way to drug raids , walking the beat on a cold , wet evening , or taking part in training side by side with officers . They seemed to make the most of the commissioner being there with them , not sparing me the newbie treatment just because of who I was . I have been set on fire twice , had drainpipes sawn off my arms and , despite doing all the videos people would expect from a politician , the most - watched video from my whole term of office was the one in which I got bitten by three different police dogs . With hindsight , given that the public appeared to enjoy the video of me getting bitten by dogs more than the ones about my budget , I suppose I should have seen my election defeat coming in that particular election . In all sincerity , though , I place firmly and proudly on the record my gratitude to everyone I have worked with at Lancashire Constabulary and in the office of commissioner . As this House debates the future policy and funding of policing in the UK , we should never forget those at the heart of it , on the frontline , working and making sacrifices to keep us safe every day . I am able to give this maiden speech today only because the people of Fylde have given me the honour of serving as their Member of Parliament , and it truly is an honour . Being elected to represent an area where my family connections go back before I was even born , that we as a family love , and where my two - year - old son Walter will grow up and call home , is an incredibly special and humbling moment . Fylde is a proud and beautiful area , steeped in the history of Lancashire and our country , nestled on stunning coastline with many towns and villages across the countryside , each with their own history . Might I add that it is also an area that we intend to fight to keep green and beautiful for generations to come ? Fylde is far more than coastline , countryside and being part of our county ’s history . Some of the most advanced technology in the world is being developed and built here . In fact , often when out near Warton and Freckleton we can hear the jet fighters taking off from the site where they are constructed . While I was out on the election battlefield , campaigning every day , it felt strangely reassuring to hear the incredible noise as the fighter jets powered overhead — to be honest , I needed all the back - up I could get in the battle to keep Fylde blue this time . From the defence sector to farming and agriculture , tourism and hospitality , the care sector and others , there is a strong local economy . However , to build on that , to create more opportunities for young people and to better connect our businesses and those seeking opportunities across Lancashire and beyond , we need to improve infrastructure and public transport . I am grateful to the work that my predecessor as the Member for Fylde did to secure millions in extra funding . Working with the Government , local councils and other partners , he was critical in securing the £ 27 million that enabled the M55 to Heyhouses link road to be constructed , and it has recently been opened . A few months earlier , the £ 150 million Windy Harbour to Skippool bypass opened , an important link road for the people across Poulton - le - Fylde . The boundary review brought this historic market town of Poulton in Wyre to the constituency of Fylde . I therefore also place on the record my thanks to the former Member for Wyre and Preston North , and former Defence Secretary , the right hon . Ben Wallace , and not only for the role he played in securing the funding for that major project , but for his unwavering work as Secretary of State for Defence in such critical , unpredictable and dangerous times . The global leadership he demonstrated in galvanising the international response to Putin ’s illegal invasion of Ukraine is a legacy that he should be incredibly proud of . Going back to Fylde , we need to focus on continuing to improve the existing road network , as well as expanding it . Equally as importantly , we need to secure investment for the rail network , and I will be campaigning hard for a passing loop on the south Fylde line to improve the regularity and reliability of services . I would also like to talk about an important personal area of work that I will undertake as a Member of this House . I would not be here today — I would not have survived the journey to this moment — without the support , encouragement and love of my wife , Caroline . We have been each other ’s strength through good times and difficult ones , and the fact that Caroline has always had the strength to support me in such magnitude when she has had her own battles to fight is testament to the person she is . Caroline , like thousands across this country , lives with what is often known as an invisible disability . It means that she has often concealed just how sick and in pain she is . She has had to explain why she is in hospital when just weeks earlier she may have been visibly well to everyone , and therefore suffering in silence . I want to champion the work of Crohn ’s & Colitis UK , and other charities and organisations that support and advocate for those with disabilities that are not visible , and to help remove the stigma , indifference and even hostility that they receive , for example when needing to use facilities marked as for disabled people . The hurt and humiliation that can cause only adds to the incredible difficulty of living with these conditions , and we must do much more to raise awareness . To conclude , Fylde is a place where some of the most advanced fighter jets in the world are built , and it is at the cutting edge of artificial intelligence and other technology , but it is also a place where towns from Lytham to Kirkham , and villages from Staining to Singleton , still crown the young rose queens each year and hold galas and parades , and a place where people take pride in looking after the countryside and preserving our heritage . I intend to spend my time in this House fighting for Fylde — yes , for the investment in our future , but also the preservation of our history , our coastline and our countryside . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allowing me the opportunity to give my maiden speech . It is a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speeches in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) on his powerful and witty speech . I must also congratulate in particular my hon . Friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his excellent speech , too . As a former professional golfer , it is fitting that he won his seat on such a huge swing , and his brilliant speech showed us why . The bar has been set intimidatingly high in this debate . I feel all the more honoured to be elected by the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife to be their representative in the House and follow in the footsteps of predecessors who served the constituency with such distinction . I pay tribute to the outgoing MP , Peter Grant , who served with such commitment and so diligently on behalf of his constituents . He will rightly be proud in particular of his contribution to the successful campaign for the reintroduction of the Levenmouth rail link both as Fife council leader and as an MP , for his service on the Public Accounts Committee and for campaigning for the rights of victims of financial scandals through his role on the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fairer financial services . I also pay tribute to Peter ’s predecessor , Lindsay Roy , who was such a brilliant MP for the constituency . Today , Lindsay is a tireless advocate for Parkinson ’s UK , making the case with passion and eloquence for improved support for people with Parkinson ’s and for investment in medical research . His example should not only give hope to people with Parkinson ’s ; he is an inspiration to us all . I am a new Member in this Parliament , but I was privileged to serve in the Scottish Parliament for 12 years . I have already observed some of the differences between Holyrood and here . This institution is older and often more complex — as indeed are many of its Members — and there are many procedures and protocols to learn , but while there are differences between the Parliaments , the purpose we have is a common one : to serve our constituents . We have heard over the past weeks how it is vital to have strong relationships between the UK Government and the devolved Administrations . That is of course true . However , I believe that there are still too few opportunities for Members of each of our UK Parliaments to work together on many matters of shared responsibility and interest . I hope that there can be greater collaboration between all our parliamentarians in the course of the next five years . On a personal note , may I say that I am proud that my wife Claire Baker continues to serve the people of Mid Scotland and Fife in the Scottish Parliament with such skill and dedication ? I was delighted that Claire and our daughter Catherine could be in the Gallery when I was sworn in . I have also been greatly privileged to work for disability charities in my time away from elected politics . For the past two years , I have worked with the charity Enable in a role supporting people with learning disabilities on campaigns for their rights , not to speak on their behalf but to support them to be their own advocates for change as experts by experience . In the media , in public forums and in Parliaments , Enable member ambassadors have told their own stories and powerfully argued the case for a more equal society . The need to tackle these inequalities is clear when people with learning disabilities have a life expectancy of 20 years less than the rest of the population , only about 7 % are in paid employment , they have fewer opportunities in education and they are twice as likely to experience bullying . I will miss working with them , but I will not miss the opportunity in this Parliament to make our country a fairer and a more equal place for disabled people . I will also not miss the opportunity to be a champion in the Chamber for the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife . The constituency stretches across Fife , from Methil , Buckhaven and the Wemyss villages on the coast to ancient Markinch and the new town of Glenrothes , and from Kinglassie and Cardenden and the villages of Benarty to Lochgelly and Kelty . Those and other communities in the constituency have their own histories and priorities , but so many are linked by their proud connections to the mining industry . That is why the decision by this Government to end the injustice of the miners ’ pension scheme , so that funds in the scheme are kept for its beneficiaries , will be so important for so many of my constituents . The communities of my constituency can look back on a proud industrial heritage , but it is vital that they can also look forward to their future as a hub for innovation , technology and our growing renewable sector . The biomass plant at Markinch , the hydrogen for domestic energy pilot at Buckhaven , and the Fife energy park at Methil are all examples of how our contingency can benefit from the exciting plans for GB Energy and our goal for Scotland to play a leading role in making Britain a green energy powerhouse . We have to seize this opportunity . Buckhaven and Methil have the highest number of deprived communities in Fife , which is why we have to realise the ambition for the area and increase employment through expansion in renewables . It is vital that UK Ministers work collaboratively with management , unions , the Scottish Government and Fife council to ensure that despite the financial difficulties of Harland & Wolff , which operates the fabrication yard at Methil , the 200 skilled jobs and apprenticeships at the yard are secured , along with its infrastructure and facilities . That skilled workforce and the facilities at the yard will be instrumental in realising Fife ’s ambition to be a thriving hub for the renewables sector in Scotland . It means so much to me to be given the chance to be a champion for our part of Scotland . My mother was a teacher at Beath High , the school attended by one of our most celebrated novelists Sir Ian Rankin , who grew up in Cardenden in the constituency . In Sir Ian ’s book “ Set in Darkness ” , Inspector Rebas carries out criminal investigations at the Scottish Parliament . We can only wonder where he finds inspiration for the plots of his novels , but I am sure we can all agree that Fife can be proud to call one of our finest writers one of our own . I also know how resilient our communities can be , and how we can look to better days even after the toughest of times . When I was growing up in Fife , my father was a vicar in Lochgelly during the miners ’ strike . My father - in - law Jim was a proud member of the National Union of Mineworkers . When I stood for election to this place in 2015 , he gave me a miner ’s lamp to bring with me to Westminster if I won , to remind me what I was here to do . I was not elected in 2015 , and after that election nearly 10 years ago , many would have thought that the flame of the Labour and trade union movement was fragile and flickering , but today in this Parliament it burns brighter than ever . Ten years later , the lamp will be with me here in Westminster , and it will remind me why I am here : to deliver the change that our country needs and to show that , through political action , we can deliver the stronger , fairer society that so many people in my constituency gave so much to achieve . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Siân Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Nigel Farage Richard Foord Will Forster Zöe Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jamie Stone Munira Wilson Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Taiwo Owatemi