With this it will be convenient to discuss the following : Government new clause 40 — Political funds : requirement to pass political resolution . Government new clause 41 — Industrial action ballots : support thresholds . Government new clause 42 — Notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employers . Government new clause 43 — Period after which industrial action ballot ceases to be effective . Government new clause 44 — Power to give notice of underpayment . Government new clause 45 — Calculation of the required sum . Government new clause 46 — Period to which notice of underpayment may relate . Government new clause 47 — Notices of underpayment : further provision . Government new clause 48 — Penalties for underpayment . Government new clause 49 — Further provision about penalties . Government new clause 50 — Suspension of penalty where criminal proceedings have been brought etc . Government new clause 51 — Appeals against notices of underpayment . Government new clause 52 — Withdrawal of notice of underpayment . Government new clause 53 — Replacement notice of underpayment . Government new clause 54 — Effect of replacement notice of underpayment . Government new clause 55 — Enforcement of requirement to pay sums due to individuals . Government new clause 56 — Enforcement of requirement to pay penalty . Government new clause 57 — Power to bring proceedings in employment tribunal . Government new clause 58 — Power to provide legal assistance . Government new clause 59 — Recovery of costs of legal assistance . Government new clause 60 — Power to recover costs of enforcement . New clause 8 — Prison officers : inducements to withhold services — “ In section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( Inducements to withhold services or to indiscipline ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 1A ) ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 7 ) . ” This new clause would repeal provisions in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 that prohibit inducing a prison officer to take ( or continue to take ) any industrial action . New clause 9 — Inducement of prison officers : exempted persons — “ After section 127A of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( inducements to withhold services or to indiscipline ) , insert — “ Section 127B : Prison officers and trade unions : exempted persons Section 127 ( inducements to withhold services or to indiscipline ) does not apply to — ( a ) Any listed trade union representing prison officers , or ( b ) any person acting on behalf of a listed trade union representing prison officers . ” ” This new clause would repeal , with respect to trade unions representing prison officers , provisions that prohibit the inducement of industrial action or indiscipline by a prison officer . New clause 19 — Right to be accompanied — “ ( 1 ) Section 10 of the Employment Relations Act 1999 ( right to be accompanied ) is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In subsection ( 3 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — “ ( ba ) person who has been reasonably certified in writing by a Professional Body as having experience of , or as having received training in , acting as a worker ’s companion at disciplinary or grievance hearings , or ” ( 3 ) After subsection ( 7 ) insert — “ ( 8) In this section , “ Professional Body ” means any organisation which is authorised by a regulation made by the Secretary of State pursuant to subsection ( 9 ) . ( 9 ) The Secretary of State may make a regulation or regulations authorising any organisation as a Professional Body for the purposes of this section . ” ” This new clause would expand the right to be accompanied by a certified companion at disciplinary and grievance hearings . New clause 28 — Enforcement against companies subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation — “ ( 1 ) A Labour Market Enforcement Strategy under section 81 must include — ( a ) the Secretary of State ’s assessment of — ( i ) the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal awards due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation during the period of three years ending immediately before the strategy period ; ( ii ) the scale and nature of such non - compliance involving phoenixing during the same period ; and ( iii ) the likely scale and nature of such non - compliance during the strategy period ; ( b ) a proposal for the strategy period setting out how enforcement functions of the Secretary of State are to be exercised in relation to such non - compliance . ( 2 ) An annual report under section 82 must include― ( a ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal awards , including non - compliance due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , and ( b ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance involving phoenixing . ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section , “ phoenixing ” means the practice of dissolving or otherwise closing a business and establishing a new one with a similar purpose , with the effect of avoiding the enforcement of employment tribunal awards or other debts . ” This new clause would require the Secretary of State to include , in the Labour Market Enforcement Strategy and annual reports under this Bill , information about non - compliance with employment tribunal awards by , and enforcement against , companies ordered to pay such awards that have been subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , including in instances in which the directors go on to set up a similar company to avoid enforcement . New clause 29 — Trade union representatives : right not to suffer career detriment — “ ( 1 ) In Part V of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( Protection from suffering detriment in employment ) , after section 47(1A ) , insert — “ ( 1B ) This section applies where the detriment in question relates to matters of internal promotion or progression . ” ( 2 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended in accordance with subsections ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) In the italic title before section 137 , after “ Access to employment ” , add “ and career progression ” . ( 4 ) After section 138 , insert — “ 138A Career progression ( 1 ) An employer must ensure that any employee undertaking trade union representative duties does not experience detriment in matters of internal career progression as a result of the employee ’s trade union activities . ( 2 ) Where an employee who is a trade union representative has not been appointed to a more senior role , in circumstances in which the employee met the minimum criteria for the role and demonstrated that criteria through the application , the employer must provide a written statement . ( 3 ) The written statement under subsection ( 2 ) must include evidence to demonstrate that the decision not to appoint the employee was not affected by the employee ’s trade union activities . 138B Career progression : support for trade union representatives An employer must have in place a policy to support the career progression of employees who are trade union representatives . The policy must set out― ( a ) how the employees will be supported in matters of internal progression and promotion ; and ( b ) how the employer will consider trade union experience in assessing applications for more senior roles . ” ” ( 5 ) In section 140(1 ) , after “ section 138 ” insert “ or 138A ” . ( 6 ) In section 142(1 ) , after “ section 138 ” insert “ or 138A ” . ” ” This new clause would enhance protections to trade union representatives , extending them to cover detriment in matters of career progression , and would require employers to demonstrate that they have not denied promotion to trade union representatives as a result of their trade union activities . It would also require employers to have a policy in place to support the career progression of employees who are trade union representatives . New clause 31 — Removal of secondary action provisions — “ In the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 224 ( secondary action ) . ” New clause 64 — Duties of trade unions — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In section 219 ( protection from certain tort liabilities ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — “ ( 5 ) But subsection ( 4 ) does not have effect in relation to any act in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute which relates wholly or mainly to proposals by an employer to vary terms and conditions of employment of two or more employees accompanied by the threat ( explicit or implied ) of dismissal if that variation is not agreed . ” ” New clause 65 — Personal Liability for breach of tribunal orders — “ ( 1 ) Where , in relation to a body corporate — ( a ) a financial order made by an employment tribunal or agreed by the claimant and the body corporate ; or- ( b ) an order of reinstatement or re - engagement made by an employment tribunal or agreed by the claimant and the body corporate has not been fulfilled by the date specified in the order or agreement , without reasonable excuse , and that failure is proved — ( a ) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body , or ( b ) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an officer , that officer shall be personally liable to reimburse the claimant in whose favour the order had been made or agreed . ( 2 ) An officer found liable for reimbursement under subsection ( 1 ) may be disqualified as a director or prevented from becoming a director . ” New clause 66 — Public sector contracting : trade union recognition — “ ( 1 ) The Procurement Act 2023 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In Part ( 2 ) ( principles and objectives ) , after section 14A insert — “ 14B Obligations of contractors to recognise trade unions ( 1 ) The Secretary of State has a duty to ensure that any contract entered into by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , is compliant with the requirements set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) A contract under subsection ( 1 ) must ─ ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purposes of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take steps to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract recognises an independent trade union for the purposes of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section , “ recognises ” , “ independent trade union ” and “ collective bargaining ” have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) An independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which is a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract is in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) The complaint may be made to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) If the Central Arbitration Committee finds the complaint to be well founded , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) Where the Central Arbitration Committee makes a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever steps appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract comply with the implied term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8) The steps that may be taken under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regarded as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concerned if a principal reason for the termination is compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) An appeal lies on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceedings brought under subsection ( 5 ) . ” ” New clause 67 — Sectoral collective bargaining : 80 per cent coverage — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , within six months of the passing of this Act , lay before Parliament an action plan to achieve , within five years , that the principal terms and conditions of employment of at least 80 percent of workers in the United Kingdom are determined by collective agreement . ( 2 ) The action plan under subsection ( 1 ) must be informed by consultation with organisations representing employers and trade unions . ” New clause 68 — Sectoral collective bargaining : other sectors — “ ( 1 ) Regulations under this Act may include regulations for collective bargaining in other sectors of the economy . ( 2 ) Regulations made under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may only be made following consultation with representatives of workers and employers in those sectors ; and ( b ) may provide that agreements reached by such collective bargaining shall apply to the workers and employers in the relevant sector save to the extent that a previous or subsequent collective agreement has provided a more favourable term or condition . ” New clause 69 — Statement of trade union rights — “ Every employee , worker and self - employed person has the right — ( a ) to join an independent trade union of his choice , subject only to its rules ; ( b ) to take part in the activities of an independent trade union at an appropriate time , subject only to its rules . ” New clause 70 — Right of Trade Unions to Access Workplaces — “ In part 1 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( trade unions ) , before Chapter 5A , insert — “ Chapter 5ZA RIGHT OF TRADE UNIONS TO ACCESS WORKPLACES 70ZA Right of access ( 1 ) A designated official of an independent trade union shall have a right to enter premises occupied by an employer in order to access a workplace or workplaces , subject to the conditions set out below . ( 2 ) An employer shall not — ( a ) refuse entry to a designated trade union official seeking to exercise his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) , or ( b ) otherwise obstruct such an official in the exercise of his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) A “ designated trade union official ” means a person nominated by the trade union to exercise the right of access on its behalf . 70ZB Access purposes ( 1 ) The right of access may be exercised for the access purposes . ( 2 ) The access purposes are to — ( a ) meet , represent , recruit or organize workers ( whether or not they are members of a trade union ) ; and ( b ) facilitate collective bargaining . 70ZC Notice to employer ( 1 ) The right of access may be exercised only after the designated official of an independent trade union has given notice of an intention to do so to the employer whose premises it is proposed to enter for the purposes of access to a workplace or workplaces . ( 2 ) The notice must be — ( a ) in writing ; and ( b ) given at least 24 hours before it is intended to exercise the right of access ; ( 3 ) The notice required to be given under subsection ( 2 ) shall — ( a ) specify the purpose for which entry is sought ; and ( b ) identify the workers or categories of workers the designated official intends to meet , represent , recruit or organize . ( 4 ) The right of access may be exercised without giving notice where there are exceptional circumstances such as to justify access without prior notice . ( 5 ) Whether circumstances are exceptional shall be determined by having regard to the relevant provisions of a Code of Practice issued by ACAS . 70ZD Access conditions ( 1 ) The right of access is subject to the following conditions . ( 2 ) The right of access may be exercised — ( a ) only at a reasonable time , and ( b ) subject to reasonable conditions imposed by the employer . ( 3 ) What is reasonable for the purposes of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determined by having regard to the relevant provisions of a Code of Practice issued by ACAS . 70ZE Dwellings ( 1 ) The right of access does not apply to any part of premises which are used exclusively as a dwelling . ( 2 ) Where sub - section ( 1 ) applies and only where sub - section ( 1 ) applies , the employer shall provide a reasonable , suitable , and alternative venue to enable the right of access to be exercised . ( 3 ) What is reasonable and suitable for the purposes of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determined by having regard to the relevant provisions of a Code of Practice issued by ACAS . 70ZF Enforcement of right of access ( 1 ) Where an employer refuses or obstructs access contrary to section 70ZA , a complaint may be made to the CAC by the trade union of which the designated official is a representative . ( 2 ) Where the CAC finds the complaint to be well - founded it shall make a declaration to that effect and may make an order requiring the employer to comply with section 70ZA , subject to such conditions as the CAC may determine . ( 3 ) If the CAC makes a declaration under subsection ( 2 ) the trade union may , within the period of three months beginning with the date on which the declaration is made , make an application to the Employment Appeal Tribunal for a penalty notice to be issued . ( 4 ) Where such an application is made , the Employment Appeal Tribunal shall issue a written penalty notice to the employer requiring the employer to pay a penalty to the trade union in respect of each refusal or obstruction of access unless satisfied , on hearing representations from the employer , that the refusal or obstruction of access resulted from a reason beyond the employer ’s control or that the employer has some other reasonable excuse . ( 5 ) If the CAC makes an order under subsection ( 2 ) the order shall be recorded in the High Court and on being recorded may be enforced as if it were an order of the High Court . 70ZG Penalty notice ( 1 ) A penalty notice issued under section 70ZF(4 ) shall specify — ( a ) the amount of the penalty which is payable ; ( b ) the date before which the penalty must be paid ; and ( c ) the failure and period to which the penalty relates . ( 2 ) A penalty set by the Employment Appeal Tribunal under section 70ZF(4 ) may not exceed a prescribed amount . ( 3 ) Matters to be taken into account by the Employment Appeal Tribunal when setting the amount of the penalty shall include — ( a ) the gravity of each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( b ) the period of time over which each refusal or obstruction of access occurred ; ( c ) the number of occasions on which each refusal or obstruction of access occurred ; ( d ) the reason for each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( e ) the number of workers affected by each refusal or obstruction of access ; and ( f ) the number of workers employed by the undertaking . ( 4 ) The Employment Appeal Tribunal shall also take into account any previous refusal or obstruction of access to a designated official of the independent trade union to which the application relates . ( 5 ) If the specified date in a penalty notice for payment of the penalty has passed and — ( a ) the period during which an appeal may be made has expired without an appeal having been made ; or ( b ) such an appeal has been made and determined , the trade union may recover from the employer , as a civil debt due to it , any amount payable under the penalty notice which remains outstanding . ( 6 ) The making of an appeal suspends the effect of a penalty notice pending the outcome of the appeal . 70ZH Other provisions relating to trade union access ( 1 ) Sections 70ZA-70ZG are in addition and without prejudice to any other provisions relating to trade union access to workers . ( 2 ) For the avoidance of doubt , the latter include but are not confined to — ( a ) Section 188(5A ) of this Act ( b ) Sections 198A and 198B of this Act ; ( c ) Schedule A1 , paragraphs 26 and 118 of this Act ; ( d ) ACAS Code of Practice on time off for trade union duties and activities issued under section 199 of this Act , for the time being in force ; and ( e ) Any collective agreement which makes more favourable provision . ” ” New clause 82 — Fair Work Agency : review of resourcing — ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must conduct a review of the resources available to the Fair Work Agency . ( 2 ) The review must be published and laid before Parliament within six months of this section coming into force . ” This new clause asks the Secretary of State to review the resources available to the Fair Work Agency to ensure that enforcement of provisions in the Act are effective . New clause 88 — Rules as to political fund — ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In subsection ( 1 ) of section 84 ( Contributions to political fund from members of the union ) , after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — “ ( 1A ) An opt - in notice under subsection ( 1 ) must include the member of the trade union ’s consent to annual renewal of the contribution to the political fund ( a “ renewal opt - in ” ) . ( 1B ) The renewal opt - in must be sent by the member of the trade union ─ ( a ) within six months of the initial opt - in and every six months thereafter , or ( b ) each time payment is due , at least 28 days before payment is taken , whichever is longer . ( 1C ) If the member of the trade union does not provide a renewal opt - in , the trade union must provide a date by which the member must notify the trade union of their consent to continued contribution towards the political fund , which must be no earlier than 28 days before the next payment to the political fund is due . ( 1D ) If the member has not — ( a)opted into an arrangement under subsection ( 1A ) or ( 1B ) , or ( b ) given notification of their consent to continued contributions by the date specified under subsection ( 1C ) , their payments to the political fund must cease before the renewal date . ” ” This new clause will ensure that trade union members are asked whether they wish their contribution to the political fund to renew automatically and would require that , if the member does not wish to renew their contribution , the union must provide a date by which the member has to confirm they wish to continue to contribute . New clause 89 — Certification Officer : growth duty — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In section 254 ( The Certification Officer ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — “ ( 2A ) In discharging the functions of the Certification Office , the Certification Officer must , so far as reasonably possible , act in such a way as to advance the following objectives — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . ” ” This new clause would require the Certification Officer to advance the objectives of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . New clause 90 — Regulations under Part 4 — “ When making regulations under Part 4 of this Act , the Secretary of State must have regard to the following objectives — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) the economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . ” This amendment would require the Secretary of State , when making regulations under Part 4 of the Bill , to have regard to the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . New clause 98 — Pressure to impose union recognition requirement — “ In the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 225 ( Pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) . ” This new clause would remove section 225 from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 on pressure to impose union recognition requirement . New clause 99 — Electronic balloting — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , within six months of the passing of this Act , lay before Parliament a statutory instrument containing an order under section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 . ( 2 ) That order must specify that — ( a ) permissible means may , in the case of any description of ballot or election , include ( or consist of ) electronic voting ; and ( b ) any ballot or election including ( or consisting of ) electronic voting must be conducted pursuant to section 230 ( Conduct of ballot ) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 3 ) The Secretary of State must not make an order under this section until a consultation with the Trades Union Congress and the Certification Officer has been conducted . ( 4 ) An order under this section may not be made unless a draft has been laid before and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament . ” This new clause requires the Secretary of State to make an order for electronic voting in a ballot or election pursuant to section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 within six months of the passing of this Act , and following consultation with the TUC . New clause 100 — Notice to employers of industrial action : amendment — “ In section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit subsections ( 3 ) to ( 9 ) and insert—- “ ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section a relevant notice is one in writing which — ( a ) identifies — ( i ) the day or the first of the days on which , at the time of the service of the relevant notice , the union proposes to call industrial action ; and ( ii ) the categories of employee the union intends to call on to take industrial action ; and ( b ) must be provided to the employer as early as practicable after the ballot result is known and the decision to take industrial action in furtherance of it has been taken . ( 4 ) If the industrial action relates to an event which has already taken place , no relevant notice shall be required . ” ” This new clause replaces the provisions in section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 to define a relevant notice for industrial action , when one must be provided and when one is not required . New clause 103 — Public sector contracting : trade union recognition — “ ( 1 ) The Procurement Act 2023 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In Part ( 2 ) ( principles and objectives ) , after section 14A insert — “ 14B Obligations of contractors to recognise trade unions ( 1 ) The Secretary of State has a duty to ensure that any contract entered into after the coming into force of this Act by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , is compliant with the requirements set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) A contract under subsection ( 1 ) must require the contractor to such a contracting authority to — ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purposes of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take steps to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract recognises an independent trade union for the purposes of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section , “ recognises ” , “ independent trade union ” and “ collective bargaining ” have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) An independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which is a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract is in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) The complaint may be made to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) If the Central Arbitration Committee finds the complaint to be well founded , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) Where the Central Arbitration Committee makes a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever steps appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carries out any obligation under the public contract comply with the implied term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8) The steps that may be taken under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regarded as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concerned if a principal reason for the termination is compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under subsection ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) An appeal lies on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceedings brought under subsection ( 5 ) . ” ” This new clause is designed to ensure that all public contractors comply with the duty to recognise a trade union for the purposes of collective bargaining and that such contractors take steps to ensure that any sub - contractors do the same . The terms “ contracting authority ” and “ public contract ” are defined in section 2 and 3 of the Procurement Act . New clause 106 — Collective bargaining — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) In section 209 , after “ industrial relations ” insert — “ and in particular to encourage the extension of collective bargaining and the development and , where necessary , reform of collective bargaining machinery . ” ” This would add duties around collective bargaining to the general duty of ACAS . New clause 107 — Whether agreement intended to be a legally enforceable contract — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) For section 179 , substitute — “ 179 Whether agreement intended to be a legally enforceable contract ( 1 ) A collective agreement shall be conclusively presumed to have been intended by the parties to be a legally enforceable contract unless the agreement — ( a ) is in writing , and ( b ) contains a provision which ( however expressed ) states that the parties do not intend that the agreement shall be a legally enforceable contract . ( 2 ) A collective agreement which satisfies those conditions shall be conclusively presumed not to have been intended by the parties to be a legally enforceable contract . ( 3 ) If a collective agreement is in writing and contains a provision which ( however expressed ) states that the parties intend that one or more parts of the agreement specified in that provision , but not the whole of the agreement , shall not be a legally enforceable contract , then — ( a ) the specified part or parts shall be conclusively presumed not to have been intended by the parties to be a legally enforceable contract , and ( b ) the remainder of the agreement shall be conclusively presumed to have been intended by the parties to be such a contract . ( 4 ) A part of a collective agreement which by virtue of subsection ( 3)(a ) is not a legally enforceable contract may be referred to for the purpose of interpreting a part of the agreement which is such a contract . ” ” This new clause replaces Section 179 on whether agreement intended to be a legally enforceable contract in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 New clause 108 — Industrial action : workers ’ rights — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) After section 219 , insert — “ 219A Right to strike Every worker shall have the right to take industrial action , whether or not in breach of any contract , subject to the provisions of this Part . ” ( 3 ) Omit section 223 ( Action taken because of dismissal for taking unofficial action ) . ” This new clause would establish a clearer right to strike and remove provisions from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 that make strike action unlawful on the grounds that it turns out ( retrospectively ) that the action the worker took was unofficial . New clause 109 — Industrial action and ballots — “ ( 1 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is amended as follows . ( 2 ) Omit — ( a ) section 224 ( Secondary action ) ( b ) 225 ( Pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) ( c ) 226A ( Notice of ballot and sample voting paper for employers ) ( d ) 228 ( Separate workplace ballots ) , and ( e ) 228A ( Separate workplaces : single and aggregate ballots ) . ( 3 ) In section 234 ( Period after which ballot ceases to be effective ) , omit subsections ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) and substitute : “ ( 1 ) Industrial action that is regarded as having the support of a ballot shall cease to be so regarded when ─ ( a ) the dispute which gave rise to it ceases , or ( b ) the union has taken no steps to pursue the dispute for a period of six months . ” ( 4 ) In subsection ( 1 ) of section 244 , ( Meaning of “ trade dispute " in Part V ) — ( a ) omit “ a dispute between workers and their employer ” and substitute “ a dispute between workers and one or more employers ” . ( b ) omit “ which relates wholly or mainly to ” and substitute “ connected with ” . ( 5 ) In subsection ( 5 ) of section 244 , omit “ a worker employed by that employer ” and substitute “ a worker employed by an employer ” . ” This new clause would remove provisions that ban all forms of secondary action ; make changes to the definition of “ trade dispute ” ; enable industrial action to be taken to achieve recognition for collective bargaining ; remove obligation on a TU to provide a ballot paper to the employer ; give TUs more freedom to choose which constituencies they will ballot ; and remove an obligation on the union in a long running dispute to re - run the ballot every six months . New clause 110 — Review into the impact on small businesses — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , within three months of the passage of this Act , lay before Parliament a review on the impact of Part 4 ( Trade Unions and Industrial Action , etc ) of this Act on small and medium - sized enterprises . ( 2 ) The review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) administrative costs ; ( b ) legal costs ; and ( c ) tax changes affecting small and medium - sized enterprises taking effect from the 2025 - 26 financial year . ( 3 ) For the purposes of this section , small and medium - sized enterprises are businesses employing 250 or fewer employees . ” This new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a review on the impact of Part 4 of this Bill , on Trade Unions and Industrial Action , on SMEs within 3 months of the passage of this Act . New clause 111 — Legal aid in employment tribunals — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , within three months of the passage of this Act , lay before Parliament a report on the options for expanding the right to legal aid in employment tribunals . ( 2 ) The report under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the impact employers ' compliance with measures contained within this Act ; and ( b ) the impact on employees ’ personal finances . ” This new clause would require the Secretary of State to report on the impact of expanding the right to legal aid in employment tribunals within 3 months of the passage of this Act . New clause 112 — Review of single enforcement body — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , within three months of the passage of this Act , lay before Parliament a review on the impact of a single enforcement body as provided for under Part 5 . ( 2 ) The review under subsection ( 1 ) must assess the impact of the single enforcement body with the impact between 2019 and 2025 of the following four enforcement bodies — ( a ) Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority ( GLAA ) ( b ) Employment Agencies Standards Inspectorate ( EAS ) ( c ) His Majesty ’s Revenue and Customs ( HMRC ) ( d ) Health and Safety Executive ( HSE ) ( 3 ) The review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) business compliance costs ( b ) Employers ’ compliance with employment law ( c ) the number of employees seeking support in relation to employment disputes . ” This new clause would require the Secretary of State to review the impact of a single enforcement body compared with separate enforcement bodies within 3 months of the passage of this Act . Amendment 270 , page 61 , line 14 leave out clause 50 . New clause 70 is intended to replace clause 50 . Government amendments 162 to 164 . Amendment 282 , clause 50 , page 61 , line 31 , after “ workplace ” insert , or “ ( b ) the right to use to any digital communications tools used by workers in the workplace . ” This amendment aims to ensure that access for unions to workplaces includes digital means of communication with workers . Government amendments 165 to 185 . Amendment 271 , clause 51 , page 69 , line 18 , at end insert — “ ( 2A ) In paragraph 22 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 1)(b ) and insert — “ the CAC has evidence , which it considers to be credible , that a majority of workers constituting the bargaining unit want the union ( or unions ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf ’ . ” ( b ) leave out subparagraphs ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 2B ) In paragraph 25 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 3)(a ) leave out “ 20 working days ” and substitute “ 10 working days ” , and ( b ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3)(b ) . ( c ) after sub - paragraph ( 4)(a ) insert “ ( aa ) by secure electronic voting , ” ( d ) in sub - paragraph ( 4)(c ) leave out “ and b ” and substitute “ to ( c ) ” ( e ) after sub - paragraph ( 4)(c ) insert — “ ( d ) only amongst those who are employed in the proposed bargaining unit and were so employed at the time the application was made ” . ( 2C ) In paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — “ ( 3A ) In the event that the union ( or unions ) consider that such access has been unreasonably refused , it ( or they ) may apply to the CAC for a declaration and order that access be granted and in the event that such a declaration or order is made and the union ( or unions ) consider that such a declaration or order has been breached it ( or they ) may apply to the High Court for relief . ” ( 2D ) In paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4B ) insert — “ ( 4BA ) The sixth duty is to refrain from any act or omission , direct or indirect , likely to encourage a union member or members to resign from union membership or likely to discourage a person from joining a union or any particular union . ( 4BB ) It shall be unlawful to compel a worker or workers by threat of detriment or dismissal to attend any meeting in which the employer , its servants or agents expresses the view directly or indirectly that — ( a ) membership of a union or any union ; or ( b ) recognition for the purposes of collective bargaining of a union or any union by the employer , is undesirable . ” ( 2E ) In paragraph 27B(2 ) leave out “ must be made on or before the first working day after ” and substitute “ must be made within 20 working days after ” . ( 2F ) In paragraph 29 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3)(b ) . ( 2 G ) In paragraph 35(1 ) leave out “ a collective agreement under which a union ( or unions ) are recognised as entitled to conduct collective bargaining ” and substitute “ a collective agreement under which an independent union ( or independent unions ) are recognised as entitled to conduct collective bargaining ” . ( 2H ) In paragraph 35(1 ) after “ in the rules ” insert “ ‘ in relation to all pay , hours and holidays ” . ( 2I ) In paragraph 39(2)(a ) leave out “ years ” and substitute “ months ” . ( 2J ) In paragraph 40(2)(a ) leave out “ years ” and substitute “ months ” . ( 2 K ) In paragraph 41(2)(a ) leave out “ years ” and substitute “ months ” . This amendment makes changes to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 regarding union recognition and balloting . Amendment 291 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out clause 52 . Amendment 292 , clause 52 , page 71 , line 6 , at end insert — “ ( 2A ) In subsection ( 1 ) of section 82 ( Rules as to political fund ) , after paragraph ( d ) insert — “ ( e ) that trade union members who have not opted out of the political fund must signal , in writing , their agreement to continue contributing to the fund at the end of a period of 12 months after last opting into the fund , and ( f ) that trade union members must be given an annual notice about their right to opt out of the political fund . ( 1B ) A notice under subsection ( 1)(f ) must include a form that enables the member to opt out of the fund . ” ” This amendment would require trade unions to notify their members every year of their right to opt out of the political fund , and to obtain an annual opt - in to the political fund from their members . Government amendments 186 to 191 . Amendment 293 , page 73 , line 6 , leave out clause 54 . Amendment 294 , page 74 , line 14 , leave out clause 55 . Amendment 296 , clause 55 , page 75 , line 3 , after “ employee ” , insert — “ , and ( c ) in relation to a public sector employer , the performance condition is met . ( 3A ) The performance condition is met if the Secretary of State is satisfied that the public sector employer is meeting any performance standards set out in a relevant enactment . ” This amendment prevents facility time for equality representatives from being provided unless the relevant public sector organisation is meeting its statutory targets for performance . Amendment 295 , page 78 , line 5 , leave out clause 56 . Amendment 299 , page 78 , line 30 , leave out clause 58 . Government amendments 192 to 199 . Amendment 315 , page 79 , line 28 , leave out clause 60 . This amendment would leave out Clause 60 on electronic balloting for industrial action . NC99 is intended to replace clause 60 . Government amendments 200 to 201 . Amendment 297 , clause 61 , page 80 , line 6 , leave out “ seventh ” and insert “ fourteenth ” . This amendment would increase , from seven to 14 days , the notice period that trade unions are required to adhere to when notifying employers that they plan to take industrial action . Government amendment 202 . Amendment 348 , page 80 , line 9 , at end insert — “ ( 3 ) The Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 is also amended as follows . ( 4 ) In section 231 ( Information as to result of ballot ) , omit from “ shall ” to after “ told ” and insert — “ display , reasonably prominently on its website , on a webpage reasonably easy to find and which is freely accessible to the general public — ” ( 5 ) Omit section 231A. ” This amendment would change the requirements for notification about the results of a union ballot . Amendment 346 , clause 62 , page 80 , line 19 , at end insert — “ ( 3 ) In section 220 ( Peaceful picketing ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after “ attend ” , insert “ a place of work ” ; ( b ) omit subsections ( 1)(a ) and ( 1)(b ) ; and ( c ) omit subsections ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ” This amendment , along with amendment 348 , would remove the restriction confining pickets to a worker ’s place of work . Amendment 300 , clause 63 , page 83 , line 9 , at end insert — “ 236E Actions short of a strike : exemption ( 1 ) The right of a worker not to be subjected to detriment under section 236A does not apply in cases where the worker is involved in one or more of the following activities — ( a ) intimidation at picket lines ; ( b ) protests organised by trade unions in furtherance of a dispute — ( i ) at the premises of a company ; ( ii ) at the private residences of senior managers ; or ( iii ) at the premises of other organisations that are connected with the dispute ; ( c ) harassment or bullying of non - striking workers , or those who are covering for striking workers ; ( d ) victimisation or harassment of senior managers ; or ( e ) action aimed at damaging property or disrupting business contingency planning . ( 2 ) The Secretary of State must ensure that the circumstances under subsection ( 1 ) , in which the right of a worker not to be subjected to detriment do not apply , are set out in a code of practice . ” This amendment would disapply the right not to suffer detriment as a result of industrial action in certain circumstances . Government amendments 203 to 226 and 236 to 239 . Government new schedule 2 — Trade union recognition . Government amendments 247 , 249 , 251 to 261 . New clause 77 — Employment Law : Scotland Act — “ ( 1 ) The Scotland Act 1998 is amended as follows — ( 2 ) In Schedule 5 of the Scotland Act 1998 , omit section H1 ( Employment and industrial relations ) . ” This new clause would remove matters related to employment from the list of the reserved matters that remain the responsibility of the UK Parliament alone and would enable the Scottish Parliament to legislate on those matters . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill German Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord Will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Zöe Franklin Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord Will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Zöe Franklin George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Siân Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord Will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Zöe Franklin George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Siân Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Siân Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Siân Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew