The emergency alert system is a vital tool for warning and informing in a case of a serious incident where there is a threat to life . This Government have used the tool five times , including the largest ever deployment for Storm Arwen . We are incorporating the lessons identified , including on improved targeting , into alert mechanisms . Last month , I laid regulations , which , subject to parliamentary approval , will give the Infected Blood Compensation Authority the powers that it needs to pay compensation to all eligible people by all routes . My aim is for the regulations to be enforced by 31 March to enable IBCA to begin payments to all eligible groups this year . The Cabinet Secretary may be asked by the Prime Minister to advise on any matter supporting the smooth running of government , including ministerial appointments . There is no written or published guidance on such matters . We have strengthened the ministerial code , but we do not need to take any advice from the Conservatives . What we have seen from this Prime Minister is decisive action to uphold ministerial standards . Compare that with the record of the previous Government where the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , was found guilty of bullying but was allowed to keep her post ; where the Government whipped their MPs to block the suspension of former Minister Owen Paterson , who broke lobbying rules ; and where the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson lied about being told of allegations of sexual misconduct by his Deputy Chief Whip . The Prime Minister is determined to uphold high standards of conduct in public office , unlike the previous Government . That is why decisive action has been taken . This is a Government in the service of working people , and we will not hesitate to take action against any Minister who fails to meet those high standards . I know that my hon . Friend takes a keen interest in these matters . In 2023 , the previous Government suspended paid advertising on X while reviewing alignment with our safe guidelines . That suspension remains in place . We continue to post content , without paid promotion , to communicate important Government information .