I am pleased to be able to say something in the debate . The points made about the history of this really need to be amplified a bit more . It was a disgraceful deal , done in 1965 by the then Labour Government , that created BIOT and led us on the pathway to expelling the Chagos islanders from both Diego Garcia and the wider archipelago . That was done when Mauritius was still a British colony , and the US was putting on a lot of pressure to get a base to fuel the Vietnam war . That was the context in which the deal was done . The treatment of the Chagos islanders , which has been written about extensively by some brilliant writers , was unbelievably brutal . They were dragged out of their homes , put on boats , and sent to either Seychelles or Mauritius with no rights , no acknowledgment and no real support whatsoever . They lived for a long time in poverty in both those places . Former Members of the House who have sadly passed on did quite a lot to try to support them . The late Tam Dalyell , former MP for Linlithgow , went to Mauritius to meet Len Williams , the new governor - general at the time , and asked why people were sleeping on the streets of Port Louis . He was told , and from that point , he took up the cause of the Chagos islanders , because he thought they had been disgracefully treated . The late Robin Cook also took the matter up , both at the time and much later , when he became Foreign Secretary . We should pay tribute to them for what they tried to do . The reality is that it was the Chagos islanders themselves who managed to get some decency and recognition . Olivier Bancoult , who has become a great friend of mine , first wrote to me in , I think , 1988 . It was a beautiful handwritten letter , saying , “ Dear Mr Corbyn , could you do anything to help the Chagos islanders ? ” We kept in touch . Indeed , I have met him many times since , including recently at the launch of his book . The Chagos Refugees Group was founded , and it operated from Olivier Bancoult ’s house . It made demands on the Mauritian Government , demands on the British Government and enormous demands on somebody who later became the British high commissioner to Mauritius , namely David Snoxell . He and Olivier Bancoult did not always get along . The latter ’s pressure on David Snoxell was enormous ; he once went to the extent of locking him in his office until they had a proper meeting . Olivier Bancoult is a feisty guy , and the group are feisty people . We should recognise that the group ’s determination brought about compensation and a litany of court cases all over the country and the world . I have been to many of the hearings ; I have heard arguments made in the decolonisation committee and at the UN Human Rights Council , and at a whole series of court processes in Britain to try to get compensation and recognition of the rights of the Chagos islanders . Today , we are dealing with the consequences of the unbelievable heroism of the Chagossian people , who have been seeking recognition and justice . I regret that there are now differences within the Chagossian community . Tam Dalyell and I strongly supported the move to get a right to British nationality for Chagos islanders , and to amend the relevant nationality Act . That was eventually achieved , and that is how , I am pleased to say , they now have unfettered access to this country . I am also pleased that the treaty continues to include that unfettered access . I hope that the Minister , when he comes to reply , can explain what discussions he has had with all the elements of the Chagossian community . The last thing we want to see is division in a community that has suffered so much , and deserves so much decency and recognition . If the Chagos islands in their entirety are not passed over to Mauritius and Mauritian sovereignty , there are two consequences . First , there will be even greater dishonesty than we thought there was in 1975 , and secondly , Britain will be in breach of an ICJ judgment . If that is what people want — if that is what Conservative and Reform Members want — so be it , but they would be acting illegally by hanging on to the islands . BIOT will go , and there will be Mauritian sovereignty over the whole area . I supported the principles behind the marine protection zone , although I did not support the no - take element that was included at the beginning . I wanted Chagos islanders to be able to return to the archipelago , and to undertake sustainable fishing and so on . I am assured that the Mauritian Government support and recognise the need to preserve the pristine beauty of the ocean around there . I am less convinced that the military and the United States forces are equally committed to the preservation of the natural world and the environment . The record is not good — not perfect . I hope that the Minister , when he comes to reply , can assure us that there will be proper inspection , not just of the outer islands , but of the seas and the land of Diego Garcia . It is wrong that the islanders were removed . It is right that they have an opportunity to return , which is what they have always campaigned for . I find it unfortunate beyond belief that they will only be allowed to visit Diego Garcia . Imagine if we could only visit the home where our parents lived , or the graves where many of our relatives had been buried . There is an emotional relationship there that will be broken by the refusal of the right of abode in future . I understood from previous discussions with the Minister and others that there could be a possibility of the return of a right of abode . I am not sure ; maybe he can reply to that . Am I happy about there being a huge military base on Diego Garcia ? No . Am I happy about the rhetoric that has been used in this debate , which seems to be cranking up the idea of yet another cold war , when we should be looking for a world of peace , rather than one of war ? I find that depressing , and not really fit for this debate . There is a right of people who live under colonisation to achieve their independence . That was achieved by Mauritius , but it was thwarted in 1965 . By agreeing now to return all the islands and the archipelago to Mauritius , we are completing a process that should have taken place in 1965 , prior to Mauritius ’s independence in 1968 . Had that happened , and had there been no separation and creation of BIOT in 1965 , we would not be having this debate today , because the issue would simply not have arisen . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Siân Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Terry Jermy Diana R. Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Nesil Caliskan Imogen Walker Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord Will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Zöe Franklin George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes