Much like one of Clwyd East ’s famous sons , John Prescott , who hails from Prestatyn , I do hope my maiden speech packs a punch . Given that the custom in a maiden speech is for the new Member to talk about some of the best bits of their constituency , coming back from a summer of attending carnivals , fêtes , agricultural shows , a classic car festival , a duck race , fun days and dog shows has made my job today a little easier . Today , I am going to take the House on a whistle - stop tour of Clwyd East , a place that it is my great privilege to represent . It is apt that I give my maiden speech in a debate about Great British Energy , as Clwyd East boasts on its coastline the port of Mostyn , with Gwynt y Môr wind farm , a UK leader in offshore wind power , and North Hoyle offshore wind farm , off the coast of Prestatyn . Both demonstrate the transformative nature of offshore wind for our country , through the energy that they generate and the local employment that they provide . Great British Energy will see that go even further , tackling the climate crisis and creating good - quality , long - term , sustainable skilled jobs in north Wales and across the UK . Prestatyn ’s beautiful stretch of coastline is not just useful for producing clean energy ; it is also a hub of tourism , with its blue flag beaches , beautifully kept station and public gardens , and high street with lots of brilliant local businesses . Though I am proud to be the first MP for the new constituency of Clwyd East , I pay tribute to my predecessor in this part of the seat , Dr James Davies , the former MP for the Vale of Clwyd constituency . From Prestatyn , James used his time in Parliament to be a dementia champion , and served his country in Government . Holywell is the next major town along the coast . St Winefride ’s well , the Lourdes of Wales , brings in thousands of visitors a year . There is the old water mill at Basingwerk Abbey , based at Greenfield valley , famed for its cotton and textile mills in the 19th century , and latterly for its brilliant heritage trails , wonderful dog walks and very challenging parkrun . Holywell High Street is also home to Holywell Area Community Museum , which features my great - grandfather ’s St John Ambulance uniform and my great - uncle ’s mining helmet from the Point of Ayr colliery . Clwyd East has a proud mining heritage , with most families near the coast having links to the Point of Ayr or Bettisfield collieries . That heritage also formed an important part of my upbringing , and is the reason I am so proud of Labour ’s commitment to end the injustice of the mineworkers ’ pension scheme . As the 684th woman to be elected to Parliament , I would like to pay tribute to Eirene White , a trail - blazer and — like yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker — a Deputy Speaker who was integral to Labour ’s commitment to equal pay , as the 58th woman elected to Parliament . Clwyd East has a vast and diverse geography , containing coastal towns , the Clwydian mountain range and the many unique villages at its base . These villages provide much in terms of innovation and activity , through the brilliant initiatives they champion and fantastic events that they hold — from community - owned pubs and shops to agricultural shows and music festivals . Hailing from the small village of Bagillt , I am immensely proud to have such a wealth of impressive , small and mighty villages in my constituency . Farming is central to the economy and culture of Clwyd East , with 68 % of the constituency serving as agricultural land . In May , I headed to Clawdd Offa farm , near Northop , to meet National Farmers Union county chairman David Williams and his family on their dairy farm . After a brief chat , we headed out into an enclosed field full of cows . In one of the more surreal moments of being a parliamentary candidate , I looked out in front of me and could not help but observe aloud , “ Why would anyone want to spend their days in an enclosed space with hordes of rowdy , lowing mammals ? ” , to which David replied , “ I quite agree Becky — you must be mad ! ” Moving south , Clwyd East ’s smallest town is Caerwys , which played host to the very first Eisteddfod , and is also the home of Dr Tim Erasmus , chair of the Caerwys Historical Society and my very much admired former politics teacher . Next is the historic market town of Mold , a town very close to my heart as it is where I spent many summers performing with my dance school at Theatr Clwyd and where I went to sixth form at the Alun school . The Alun school worked to give its students the best opportunities to succeed — something that I am firmly committed to . Maximising opportunities for young people is a passion that I know I share with one former predecessor from the Delyn constituency , David Hanson — after all , I first came to Parliament on work experience with David 13 years ago . So committed is David to providing opportunities for young people that he is continuing to monitor and support my development by joining the other place as Lord Hanson . I am so proud and excited to work alongside a political hero of mine under a new Labour Government , whose resolve to do the very same thing 32 years ago paved the way for me and a generation of young people to access opportunities and succeed . Between 2019 and 2024 , Delyn was served by Rob Roberts . I am heartened by Rob ’s local roots and close ties with the community that brought him up , as well as his keenness to work with community councils and his proud use of the Welsh language , having gone to the Welsh - medium school Maes Garmon . Fel mae nhw dweud , “ Cenedl heb iaith , cenedl heb galon . ” As well as having educated two MPs , Mold is also the home of Daniel Owen square ; Bailey Hill , or Mold castle ; and a thriving number of independent shops and businesses . With a summer recess of sampling cakes at local fêtes having taken its toll on my waistline , I am grateful to the brilliant independent clothes shops that have saved the day , including Simmi , where I found the perfect outfit to make my maiden speech in . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear ! ” ] Thank you ; that is very kind ! As is the case throughout the constituency , people in Mold take great pride in their town and contribute to the rolling series of events and festivals throughout the year . I am also privileged to represent the beautiful town of Ruthin , with its rich history and enduring architecture . As well as Ruthin castle and its resident peacocks , the local community has worked to make sure that Ruthin ’s old courthouse , jail and market hall are restored and open to the public . Ruthin also hosts the incredibly popular Ruthin festival , a fantastic annual event run by local volunteers and proudly conducted yn Gymraeg . Heading over the horseshoe pass , the final large town of the constituency is Llangollen . As the host of the annual Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod , Llan is proud to be the place where “ Wales welcomes the world ” . I did have tickets to the Eisteddfod this year — a night of west end musical numbers on 4 July — but clearly the right hon . Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) had other ideas . With Llangollen in my constituency , I must hold the title for the constituency with the best and most varied days out . Where else could you expect to ride on a heritage steam train in the morning and head just 10 minutes down the road to kayak across an aqueduct with UNESCO world heritage status in the afternoon ? Llangollen railway and the Froncysyllte aqueduct are only part of what Clwyd East has to offer . If you are feeling a bit dizzy at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , that is because you have just travelled about 40 miles in — hopefully — around eight minutes . Whether it is supporting local businesses to thrive , improving public transport , keeping our communities safe , improving people ’s rights at work or helping young people to fulfil their potential , I will do all I can for the people of Clwyd East , and I will work tirelessly to repay the trust that they have placed in me .