I congratulate my right hon . Friend the Chancellor not only on being the first woman ever to deliver a Budget to this House , but on being the first Chancellor to deliver a joined - up , grown - up Budget in 14 years . Representing a Welsh constituency , I am proud that this Budget provides the largest funding boost—£21 billion — that Wales has received since devolution . That is proof , if ever that were needed , that only two Labour Governments working together will ever properly listen to , understand and fight to meet the needs of the people of Wales , who have been ignored , belittled or attacked by generations of Conservatives . We all know that our broken public services would collapse overnight without the selfless dedication of the countless women and men who , day in and day out , serve as unpaid carers . I am particularly pleased that the Budget has raised the amount by nearly £ 200 a month that carers can earn before losing out on carer ’s allowance . Turning to agriculture , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for farming , and having grown up on a small family farm , I know there has been much disquiet over the changes to agricultural property relief . I have been in constant communication with our excellent local NFU policy staff since the Budget , and I am listening to their concerns and feeding them directly back to DEFRA . It is unsurprising that farmers are worried , given that many journalists and the Conservative party have unfortunately been selectively focusing on a £ 1 million figure that does not reflect the reality of the policy . Let me seek to reassure small family farmers and repeat the words of the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . Friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) last week , who said : “ The total value of a farm should not be confused with the value being passed on at death . Multiple family members can own part of a farm . For example , if an individual jointly owns a farm worth £ 3 million with their partner , only £ 1.5 million is in their estate at death . ” Those are wise words , which will give comfort to many who have been misled by selective and mischievous comments on the Budget . With the additional £ 500,000 relief for each partner if there is a property on the farm , a farm worth up to £ 3 million may still pay zero inheritance tax . Yes , this Budget recognises that family farms form part of the backbone of rural communities , but it also recognises that our rural communities rely every bit as much on strong , functioning public services . This historic Budget calls time on austerity , and brings stability back .