Thank you for calling me to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during this important debate . Like others , I wish to congratulate all those who have spoken before me , particularly those who made their maiden speeches , not least the hon . Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) whose contribution was very substantial . I am originally from the village of Dunloy in the north - east of Ireland . I represent the Aberdeenshire North and Moray East constituency in the north - east of Scotland . I paid close attention when the right hon . Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) was advising new Members on our ambitions for the future , particularly because I want to share my ambition . I am the first MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East and I hope to be the last MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East . This is a coastal area that stretches from the River Spey in the west to Cruden Bay in the south . It is an area noted not only for its industry , but for the industriousness of its people and its communities . Its long - standing economic strengths are in farming , fishing and their associated sectors , including food and drink production , and , in more recent times , in the oil and gas industries and their supply chain . The area makes a substantial and significant contribution to the nation ’s energy security and food security . We are now undergoing a new industrial revolution associated with the renewables sector . As the world adapts to new challenges , I believe that it is our duty in this Parliament to capitalise on the opportunities that now present themselves in the north - east of Scotland . It is also a most beautiful area — something of an undiscovered gem — with a developing tourism industry . Members will remember that the next time they enjoy a single malt , an Aberdeen Angus steak , a prawn cocktail or perhaps a fish supper , because the chances are that they came from the industries based in my constituency . There is also significant poverty — in particular child poverty — in this otherwise prosperous area . Although this is mainly concentrated in larger towns , it is also a challenge in villages and rural areas where it is often less visible . Recent figures suggest that around 5,500 children in this constituency are living in serious poverty — some of them in absolute poverty . To be clear that means that they do not have enough money to meet basic needs for shelter , clothing and food . That is something that we should all remember in our position of privilege , and it is something that we should all work together on to change . I want to pay tribute to the outgoing MP , David Duguid , who represented the previous Banff and Buchan constituency , which disappeared in the recent boundary changes . Some Members will know that David experienced sudden and significant ill - health before the general election was called . I wish him a speedy and full recovery . David was an excellent MP who did his best to represent everybody in the constituency , but most notably the interests of the energy , fishing and farming industries . His efforts were in stark contrast to the way that he was treated in the end when he was effectively deselected by his colleagues . I wish David and his family well in whatever their future plans may involve . I also wish to acknowledge the work of the last SNP MP in this area , Eilidh Whiteford , who was an outstanding political representative . Today in the King ’s Speech , the Government had an opportunity to immediately abolish the harmful two - child cap on child benefit and the notorious rape clause , which my former colleague , the outgoing MP for Glasgow Central , Alison Thewliss , worked so hard to end . The failure to do this is an early indictment of the Government ’s policy position . I was encouraged when I heard contributions from the hon . Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and the right hon . Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . But what about the contribution from the right hon . Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) when he said , “ No ifs , no buts , just do it . ” ? It is simply not good enough for the people of Scotland , an energy rich nation , to pay so much to heat their homes while so many of their bairns are living in absolute poverty . I will be focusing on this issue over the course of this Parliament . I will seek to defend the interests of our farming and fishing industries , to protect our public services and to help realise the potential of renewable energy and carbon capture to deliver jobs and economic growth . But , above all , I shall be a voice for the weak and the disadvantaged . After 14 years of austerity , we need a change of direction , not more of the same . I wish to make special mention of the WASPI women who have been so unfairly treated by successive Governments , and who deserve compensation . To conclude , I thank the people of my constituency for their support at the ballot box , my colleagues in the SNP and in other parties , and the various members of House staff on the Westminster estate , who have been so welcoming and helpful on my arrival and during my induction . Finally — and Members would not expect me to say anything less — I will be working hard in this place and elsewhere to press the case for the people of Scotland to be afforded their democratic rights to determine their own future .