I recently met the managing director of Morebus again to call for new services to Hengistbury Head , reinstated services to Throop and better services , such as an improved 33 route to the Royal Bournemouth hospital and the airport . Does the Minister agree that better buses are good for our communities and our economy , and that there is a lot of growth to unlock in Bournemouth and the south - west with better buses ? I congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on securing the debate , and on all his efforts and leadership in championing the Irish in Britain and advocating for co - operative relationships with Northern Ireland for many years . Lá fhéile Pádraig sona daoibh — happy St Patrick ’s day . St Patrick ’s day is no longer a day but a season . It starts sometime in early March , around the time of my birthday , and carries on for a full month . I think today ’s debate marks the end of it . I have “ green fatigue ” at this stage of the month , where I do not want to see any more St Patrick ’s paraphernalia , and certainly no Guinness , for quite a while . However , it has once again been a fantastic season , celebrating the best of the Irish community in Britain . I draw the House ’s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests . I am the proud chair of the Labour Party Irish Society , and have been for the past five years . We represent the Irish community in Britain and champion strong co - operative relationships between Ireland and Britain , and Northern Ireland as well . Someone touched on the Good Friday agreement , and two years ago I was proud to open the Mo Mowlam film studio for cinematic arts at Ulster University in Derry . She was one of many great figures from our party who contributed to that peace agreement , which is in the DNA of the Labour party and I am very proud of that . Many hon . Members have had a lot to say about Guinness as the sponsor of choice for St Patrick ’s day refreshments , but Jameson is also available and Tayto crisps are worth noting . Tayto are more than a crisp : they are a way of educating people about Ireland and Irish politics . A lot of people do not know that there are two types of Tayto , one from Northern Ireland and one from the Republic of Ireland — or , as I call them , the Nordie Tayto and the Free Stayto . That is always a good way of explaining things to people . As I said in my maiden speech , I am proud to be London - Irish . That is the community that I grew up in and the community I want to pay tribute to today . I am also proud to represent Beckenham and Penge , the only constituency in London with a Gaelic place name , as “ penge ” means “ edge of the woods ” . We have a fantastic Irish community . All four of my grandparents are from Ireland : two grannies from the south and two grandads from the north . One granny was particularly proud and I was wondering what she would have done if she had still been alive when I was elected . I know for a fact that she would have gone to 9 am mass and then to 10.30 am mass , to make sure that everyone knew that her grandson had been elected as an MP . A couple of years ago there was an exhibition at the London Irish Centre curated by the national charity , Irish in Britain , that for the first time that I can remember really told the story of the London - Irish community over several generations . The London Irish did as much as any community to build this great city . Irish navvies dug the underground , and Irish construction workers rebuilt our city after the war . I know that we have a fantastic construction industry in London , with so many Irish people involved , and today we have the founder of and members from the London Irish Construction Network , including Sean Daly and Frank O’Hare , here to watch the debate . As was touched on by my hon . Friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , waves of thousands of young Irish women came to staff our hospitals at the birth of the NHS in this country . Those women , known as the Angels of Mercy , were often overlooked but essential to the NHS . I spent a lot of time in NHS hospitals as a teenager , especially the Royal London hospital and the Royal National orthopaedic hospital . My Irish dad would often look after me , and we would often encounter an Irish nurse . Before I could get treated , they had to establish how they knew each other . It would begin with , “ What county are you from ? ” , then , “ What town are you from ? Do you know so and so ? ” Once they had made that connection , we were free to get on with our day . The Irish in Britain have maintained that relationship with the NHS ever since , and I am really proud that there are more Irish staff in the NHS today than staff from any other European country . Even if we think back more recently to the global health emergency of covid , it was an Irish woman , Professor Teresa Lambe , who co - developed the Oxford - AstraZeneca vaccine . It was then Margaret Keenan , an Irish woman from Enniskillen living in Coventry and a former NHS nurse , who became the first person in the world to have the vaccine . The Irish connection to the NHS is really deep and strong , and our community is incredibly proud of it . However , the exhibition also charted the history of how the Irish community was received here , which , as has been touched on , was not always easy . Alongside the Windrush generation and the West Indian community — it is important to remember that there has been a lot of solidarity between those communities — it was often treated with suspicion and subjected to discrimination , including through signs that read “ No blacks , no dogs , no Irish ” . However , the London Irish community and the Irish community across Britain today is a community transformed . It is confident in the contributions it makes to every aspect of life in Britain — economic , political , social and cultural . The Irish community help to make our country the great place it is to live . I extend that beyond London to the home counties as well . My hon . Friend the Member for Reading Central ( Matt Rodda ) , who is here today but can not take part in the debate , has long been a champion of Irish contributions to Reading football club and to the Reading Irish Centre , which I have been to and which does incredible work to support the Irish community in Reading . As well as celebrating the contributions of the Irish community in Britain , I will touch on a campaign I started in the last few weeks to secure justice for 13,000 survivors of Ireland ’s mother and baby homes living in Britain . We often need to remember the reason why lots of people left Ireland and decided to come to Britain . For some , it was for work or to be with friends and family , but in the case of thousands of women who were sent to those homes for the perceived sin of becoming pregnant outside marriage , it was to escape those institutions and the stigma that often came with having been in one . More than 13,000 survivors live in Britain today , both women and the children who were born into the institutions . They were subjected to some of the most horrific mistreatment and abuse in those homes . Women were used as unpaid labour , and their children were often forcibly adopted . I have named my Bill “ Philomena ’s law ” , after Philomena Lee , who I felt brought that story to a global audience in the film “ Philomena ” , in which she is portrayed by Dame Judi Dench . We had an event on an evening two nights ago in a packed room in Parliament to which survivors came and told their stories . It was incredibly powerful to hear from them about the impact that that has on them many years later . I hope the Government will listen to the proposals we are putting forward . At the moment , if the survivors accept the compensation payment they have been awarded by the Irish Government , but are in receipt of means - tested benefits , they will lose that compensation . I heard from survivors this week , and that has actually become an additional burden for many of these women , who are now often in their 80s or 90s , and some of them are very vulnerable . I will go back to the Irish in Britain . We see the pride of the second - generation Irish community , of which I am part , and the growth of Irish culture and its importance right across Britain in the growth of the Gaelic Athletic Association . It is not just people of Irish heritage who get involved , but people from all communities and backgrounds who participate in GAA . There is also the Irish language ; people are adopting Irish names . My cousin Jordan and his partner Annie had a baby a couple of weeks ago — a little girl — and I congratulate them . They have named her Fiáin , which is Irish for “ wild ” — I think she will take after her dad . It is common that people are very proud of their heritage often several generations back . We have seen that in Irish music and culture , where for years the Irish community was subjected to discrimination . We are now in a period where we can turn on the TV on a Friday night and watch Graham Norton on BBC One and “ Derry Girls ” on Channel 4 , which is a representation of how far the Irish community has come . We see it in trade unions and in the labour movement as well : there was a period a year or two ago when the general secretary of every single major trade union in this country was either first- generation or second - generation Irish . There is no more visible transformation in the confidence of the London Irish community over time than in the growth of the Mayor of London ’s St Patrick ’s day parade . I was very proud to take part in that this month with our mayor , Sir Sadiq Khan . More than 50,000 people joined and participated in that parade , and London was awash with green . To sum up , what makes the Irish community so special for me is that it is an inclusive and welcoming community . At the entrance to the exhibition at the London Irish Centre two years ago , there was a plaque that read : “ Ar scáth a chéile a mhaireann na daoine ” , which means “ In the shelter of each other , the people live ” . It is an Irish proverb that sums up what makes our community in Britain so special and sums up neatly the Irish contribution to making our country the great place it is to live . I again thank my hon . Friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme for securing this debate , and I thank everyone who has taken part in it .