With this it will be convenient to discuss the following : Amendment 1 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 2 , after “ if ” insert “ without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse ” . This amendment seeks to ensure that an offence is only committed if the acts complained of are shown to have been made without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse , so that it is not necessary for the person alleged to have committed the offence to prove their innocence . Amendment 2 , page 1 , line 3 , after “ to ” insert “ permanently ” . This amendment seeks to ensure that only acts where the dog is permanently removed from lawful control would fall under the offence . Amendment 3 , page 1 , line 3 , leave out “ any person ” and insert “ its keeper ” . This amendment seeks to ensure that only where a dog is removed from the lawful control of its registered keeper falls under the offence , rather than removal from any person . Amendment 4 , page 1 , line 5 , after “ to ” insert “ permanently ” . This amendment seeks to ensure that only acts where the dog is detained so as to permanently keep it would fall under the offence . Amendment 5 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out from “ of ” to end of line 6 and insert “ its keeper ” . This amendment seeks to ensure that only where a dog is detained so as to keep it from its registered keeper falls under the offence . Amendment 6 , page 1 , leave out lines 21 to 23 . This amendment is consequential on Amendment 1 . Amendment 7 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out “ ( 3 ) ” . This amendment is consequential on Amendment 6 . Amendment 8 , page 2 , line 30 , at end insert — “ ( aa ) references to a dog are only to a dog which — ( i ) has been implanted with a microchip pursuant to the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 ; or ( ii ) has been certified as exempt from such an implant under those Regulations ” . The above Regulations provide for the compulsory microchipping of dogs and the recording of each dog ’s identity and its keeper ’s contact details on a database . This amendment ensures that the offence of dog abduction can only be made in respect of dogs which have been microchipped ( or are certified as exempt ) in accordance with those Regulations and will thereby incentivise keepers to comply with the rules about microchipping . Amendment 9 , page 2 , line 34 , at end insert — “ ( aa ) “ keeper ” has the meaning given to it under the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 ” . This amendment ensures that “ keeper ” is intended to have the same meaning as under the specified Regulations . Amendment 10 , page 2 , line 39 , leave out clause 2 . This amendment removes the offence of cat abduction . Amendment 11 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 36 , leave out “ or 2 ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 12 , page 4 , line 5 , leave out “ or 2 ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 13 , page 4 , line 8 , leave out “ or 2(5 ) ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 14 , page 4 , line 38 , leave out “ or 2 ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 15 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out “ and 2 ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 19 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out “ come into force in relation to England ” . and insert “ , so far as they extend to England and Wales , come into force ” . This is a technical amendment to ensure that it is clear how the commencement of clauses 1 and 2 operates in so far as those clauses extend to England and Wales ( rather than just in relation to England ) . Amendment 21 , page 5 , line 7 , at end insert “ provided that the Secretary of State has fulfilled the requirement to publish the guidance required by section [ Guidance ] ” . Amendment 16 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out “ and 2 ” . This amendment is consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 20 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out “ in relation ” and insert “ so far as they extend ” . This is a technical amendment to ensure that the commencement of clauses 1 and 2 is dealt with in the same way throughout clause 6 .