Before I start my speech , I would like to pay a huge tribute to Lord Prescott , even though he caused great consternation to my hon . Friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) when she was standing right behind him as general secretary of Welsh Labour during a certain incident in north Wales . I am sure John would have welcomed today ’s debate , campaigning as tirelessly as he did to extend opportunities , champion worker ’s rights and , as mentioned by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , open up on his own mental health . My sincere sympathies go to his family at this time . He will be sorely missed , but fondly remembered . We have had a very positive and constructive debate today , in that lovely consensual way on a Thursday afternoon when we look at the real issues and think how we can tackle them and what we need to do . I am pleased to respond in this debate , celebrating International Men ’s Day and joining 80 countries in marking the contribution that men make to our world . I thank my hon . Friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for making sure we have this opportunity . He is the vice - chair of the APPG on men and boys ’ issues , and now we have found out who the chair is : the shadow spokesperson , the hon . Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . I am sure there is a great partnership there and that we will hear a great deal more from them about the priorities and the things that we need to tackle . I thank all Members who have taken part in the debate . We have certainly had a very thoughtful array of contributions . In particular , my hon . Friend the Member for Bishop Auckland , who opened the discussion today , was man enough and brave enough to open up about his own issues and how he shared those with one of his local groups . So many local groups and the excellent work that they have done have been mentioned in today ’s debate . As my hon . Friend outlined , some of the main issues are health , suicide , crime — whether it be committing a crime or being a victim of a crime — exclusion from schools , social and cultural expectations , and the need for positive male role models . There was , of course , also a large focus on mental health , education , entertainment and the position of influencers . My hon . Friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) mentioned a number of very important organisations in her constituency . She spoke about prostate cancer and that pernicious issue of the subculture , incel , and the harm that it is causing . We then heard from the hon . Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) who mentioned his own excellent volunteer groups , including the Aylsham men ’s shed . My hon . Friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) talked about young men , who , when genuinely considering teenage issues such as body image and relationships in a perfectly normal way , are targeted by extremists with horrendous misogyny , bigotry and homophobia . They are being set against the institutions that keep our society together . There is so much that we need to do in that area . As my hon . Friend mentioned , it is about restoring young men ’s hope — restoring hope that they have a future — and helping them to achieve their goals . My hon . Friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) focused very clearly on the issues of trans men and transphobia . I would just say to him that the Government are absolutely committed to ensuring that trans people can receive the care and support that they need when accessing NHS services . We frequently engage with a wide range of stakeholders in this area , including the LGBT+ health adviser , Dr Michael Grady . My hon . Friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) spoke about the need for men to talk and to be able to access the services that they need . She talked about a whole range of services , right from the time of needing paternity leave through to the needs of veterans — the whole age range of need for support for men . My hon . Friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) talked about tackling stereotypes . That reminded me of a quite old - fashioned headteacher , who I once worked under in a school in Swansea . She said to the boys , “ If you want to be in the rugby team , you must be in the choir . ” That is the same sort of idea : breaking down the stereotypes that men should not be doing artistic , wonderful and creative things as well as physical things . My hon . Friend also mentioned the tragedy of suicides and again talked about the organisations in his constituency that have done very good work in helping men in that respect . My hon . Friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) talked about stereotypes and the pressure of those stereotypes , men ’s suicide , the need for mental health support for men and the need to encourage men to talk . The spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , talked about farmers and how extraordinary and welcome it is to find middle - aged farmers now opening up . Again , he mentioned the issue of prostate cancer and how , as a doctor , he would advise every man to get checked . He stressed the importance of being open about health and talking about it .