I compliment my good friend the hon . Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on his passion , commitment , knowledge and determination . If I may say so , I am also grateful that he mentioned the late , great David Graeber in his introduction . He was a good friend to both of us , an amazing young man and an amazing philosopher sadly taken from us too soon . I think his family will be really chuffed that the hon . Member has included him in his speech on something so fundamental as the right to fresh , clean water for us all . This Bill seeks to protect that right ; it recognises that water is an essential and basic need , and therefore something so universal and so essential surely ought to be completely in public hands . Most countries around the world do not even countenance the idea of privatising water ; they say , “ It is our public responsibility to ensure that we can provide clean and safe water for everybody . ” When the Government of Margaret Thatcher and others privatised water in the 1980s , many of us strongly opposed it — I think I am the only Member in the Chamber who had the privilege of voting against privatisation at the time . We predicted that it would lead to a rip - off of the public sector , and to asset stripping of the land and other resources that the water boards had built up . We also pointed out that the water infrastructure we enjoy — the reservoirs in Wales , in Scotland and all over England , the piping , the sewage works , and all the other hugely complex elements of infrastructure — was , for the most part , built by public enterprise and public investment . We all laud the work of Bialetti in producing a sewage system for London . That was not done by the private sector ; it was done through Victorian investment in a public structure to bring about proper treatment of sewage and provide clean water for the people of London . We should be proud of the public investment that brought about the water system that we have , and should recognise that since 1989 , when water was privatised , £ 72 billion has been taken out in dividends by the water companies . That amounts to £ 2 billion a year not invested in water — not invested in new pipes and in protecting the system we have . Those profits are extraordinary . The hon . Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) rightly talked about the amount of pollution flowing into our rivers . I can not get my head around the fact that 300,000 hours - worth of sewage was pumped into the Thames in the last year alone . When we add that to the amount being pumped into the Severn , the Trent , the Humber , the Mersey and all the great rivers across this country , we realise the scale of the problem we are dealing with . We then realise what happens to that — the sewage goes into the sea , and it comes back in fish . It pollutes water , which does not stop at the river ’s mouth ; it goes into the oceans , creating further global water pollution . Surely we can do much better . I therefore welcome the Bill , and I invite Members to look seriously at clauses 1 and 2 . Clause 1 sets out the measures that will be required in the Secretary of State ’s strategy , including measures on prioritising investment , collaborating with local authorities and using natural flood management techniques , and a requirement for local authorities to take into account the need for conservation — all incredibly sensible measures that can only be delivered by public authorities . Privatised water companies do not have as their top line the conservation of the natural world and the environment . They have as their top line , their middle line and their bottom line the profits they can take out of it . And please , nobody tell me that the £ 72 billion paid out in dividends has been reinvested in the British economy . It is in tax havens all over the world . We are subsidising tax havens all over the world on the back of our polluted and privatised water industry . Clause 2 relates to the commission on water , which is a fascinating proposal . The commission would include representatives of water companies — which are privatised at the moment but would hopefully be publicly owned — union representatives in the water industry , environmental or conservation groups , water users , which would be local businesses , and local authorities . I strongly support public ownership of water , but I do not envisage a situation in which the Prime Minister , as a gift to his friends , puts them all on a British water board . I would like to retain the existing system of managing river basin areas — Thames , Severn Trent and so on . That makes sense , because that is where the primary water supply comes from . That would be managed through a commission that includes the workforce , trade unions , all the local authorities in the area , local businesses , because they use water and supply services locally , and others who can be appointed from elsewhere . We would have public buy - in to the structure , which would give us a much better and more democratic system . I urge Members to look with some imagination at what the hon . Member for Norwich South has put forward . Some say , “ We ca n’t possibly bring this into public ownership because it might cost money . ” The 1945 Labour Government started by nationalising the Bank of England in 1946 and went on to bring many other industries into public ownership . Even the Ted Heath Government in 1971 brought Rolls - Royce into public ownership and created Rolls - Royce ( 1971 ) Ltd because the company was failing . The agreed share price was set by Parliament — it was not set by the market in all those cases . We can do the same in this case .