I have recently been contacted by constituents about the imminent closure of the Hall , a small community space in East Village , Stratford — one of very few in the area . As we know , such spaces are absolutely invaluable . Ours hosts loads of events , including meetings of the Brownies and the Girl Guides . I am making representations to Get Living , the developer responsible for that decision . It has , frankly , been responsible for a whole bunch of questionable decisions over recent years , including during the cladding scandal and on exorbitant service changes . Can we have a debate in Government time on how the actions of developers have undermined the Olympic legacy and failed local residents ? We have seen many injustices debated in this House . Just today , we have seen the injustice of the WASPI women . In recent weeks , we have spoken about the infected blood scandal and , more recently , the Post Office scandal . Tonight , we are going to debate another scandal : the mineworkers ’ pension scheme scandal . Some 25 % of the United Kingdom is on top of old coalmines , so I had hoped that 25 % of this Chamber would be full tonight , but it is not . Maybe there are a few reasons for that . The issue has been debated a lot in this place , both before and since I came into Parliament , so maybe certain MPs are getting a bit fed up of saying the same old thing , but we will keep trying . I started in the pits in the mid-1980s . I went to work at Sutton colliery , in north Nottinghamshire , with my dad Paul Anderson . He was a rope fitter , and I went to work with him underground . I had a good time working with my dad and my friends at Sutton colliery , which was a family pit . It was a small coalmine with small coal seams and difficult conditions . It was a family pit where brothers worked with their brothers , dads and grandads . It was a proper community , but like all coalmines , there was tragedy underground . At Sutton colliery in 1957 , there was a methane explosion and , sadly , five men lost their lives . I knew some of the friends , families and descendants of the people who died . I then went on to Cresswell colliery , in north Derbyshire , to do my coalface training . It was another family pit where , again , men worked with their sons , and brothers worked with their brothers , and it too was tinged with tragedy . In 1950 , there was a fire at Cresswell colliery and , sadly , 83 men and boys lost their lives . The mine rescuers had to seal the pit off underground to save the colliery , so that it could produce coal again . They sealed off some of the old workings and left the men inbye , because there was no chance of saving them , but when they took the stops down just a few months later , the men were on the other side . Some of them had scratched their names into the wall . It was terrible , and this sort of thing is hard to explain to people who have not worked down a coalmine . It was a very tight - knit community , and people worked in difficult conditions . I had just over 10 years of working in awful conditions , but my grandad Charlie had 45 years down the coalmine and finished up at Norton Hill colliery . It would have been 50 years , but he took a break between 1940 and 1945 , and went to fight Hitler . Then he came back and went straight back down the pit the following week . When he finished in the pits in 1979 , he got a tankard , a certificate , 500 quid and a meagre pension — imagine that . As miners , we knew about the risks underground when we went down the pit every day . Since mining started in this country in the 1600s , over 160,000 men , women and children have died in the coalmines , so we knew the risks . We knew there was always a chance that something might happen , but these were the risks we took . The miners took these risks for simple reasons : to earn a wage , put food on the table and make sure their kids were well dressed . In 1994 , when I was still working in the pits , they were privatised . In my area , it was RJ Budge Mining that took over the pits . At that time , a big bone of contention was what was going to happen with the MPS , or the mineworkers ’ pension scheme . It was probably one of the richest pension schemes in the world at that time , and was worth hundreds of millions , if not billions , in today ’s money . It was always accepted that there would be a 70:30 split in favour of the miners . When the then Government sat around the table with the trustees to make an offer to guarantee the mineworkers ’ pension scheme , we automatically surmised that there would be a 70:30 split , which would have been fair . But at the last minute , it ended up being — and depending on who you talk to , whether it is the trustees at the time or the mining organisations involved in campaigning , nobody can get to the bottom of it — a “ take it or leave it ” 50:50 deal . The Government at the time never undertook a proper financial risk assessment or had actuarial advice on the split . We can never get to the bottom of that — it was a simple “ take it or leave it . ” When I was working at the pit with my friends , we never really had a say in this . I can not remember any man I worked with underground being happy with the 50:50 split , because we knew how rich the pension fund was . Thirty years on from 1994 , successive Labour and Conservative Governments have not paid a single penny into the pension scheme , which is a cash cow . They have taken £ 4.8 billion out of the scheme . Some mining groups say the sum is nearer to £ 10 billion , but I will take the figure I have here . In just the last three years , the Government have taken more than £ 400 million out of the surplus , which is a lot of money . This is miners ’ money . In effect , the Treasury ’s guarantee is an insurance scheme . It guarantees to make up the shortfall and pay the bonuses , and so on , if there is not a surplus , but I can not think of any insurance scheme anywhere in this country , or the world , that has never had to pay out . In 30 years , not a penny has come from the Treasury or the taxpayer to top up the mineworkers ’ pension scheme . I think that is a bit of a scandal , and so does my mining community .