I congratulate the hon . Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) on bringing forward what is a genuinely interesting and surprisingly well - attended Adjournment debate . I think it is the best - attended Adjournment debate I have taken for some time . Were I in mischievous mood , I would gently refer him to the answers that I gave him on 18 November , 29 February and 12 March and resume my place , but alas mischief eludes me and I will give him as full an answer as I can . Obviously the Government are considering the very good and serious report into this situation from the Procedure Committee . It is not an anomalous situation — it has arisen before — but it is right that we should consider it in a modern light . In the meantime , while we are waiting for the Government ’s full consideration , there are a number of ways in which the Foreign Secretary is being held to account by Parliament as a whole . In the House of Lords , he answered questions on 21 November , 5 December , 15 January , 16 January , 13 February , 12 March and 15 March . I know that the House of Lords is not a place where the Scottish National party goes to play . As the hon . Gentleman knows , because we have debated this on a number of occasions , I think that is a great shame . I understand that the party ’s plans and vision to break up the kingdom failed — with the support of the Scottish people , I am pleased to say . After that juncture , SNP Members would have done well to accept that that was a once - in - a - generation vote and that they were plausibly going to be here for some time if people continued to elect SNP Members to this House . It would therefore have been wise of them to stick a few people in the upper House so that the views of their party and that part of the electorate could be represented in that part of Parliament . They chose not to . Consequently they are now unable to question the Foreign Secretary when he stands to answer questions in the Lords , but that is their prerogative .