If I may , I will answer that in a moment , because I will now turn back to the report . In laying the report before Parliament , the ombudsman brought matters to the House ’s attention , making it clear that Parliament has a role in responding to the report . The Government intend to engage fully and constructively with Parliament . I view this debate as a crucial part of that process . I remind the House about what the ombudsman ’s report says — and indeed does not say . The ombudsman has looked not at the decision to equalise the state pension age but rather at how that decision was communicated by the DWP . That is important to understand , as the motion calls on the Government to “ deliver prompt compensation to women born in the 1950s who had their State Pension age raised . ” Importantly , the ombudsman ’s report hinted at the Department ’s decisions over a narrow period between 2005 and 2007 , and their effect on individual notifications . The ombudsman has not found that women have directly lost out financially as a result DWP actions . The report stated : “ We do not find that it ” — the DWP ’s communication — “ resulted in them suffering direct financial loss . ” The final report does not say that all women born in the 1950s will have been adversely impacted , as many women were aware that the state pension age had changed . The stage 1 report found that between 1995 and 2004 , the DWP ’s communication of changes to the state pension age reflected the standards that the ombudsman would expect it to meet . That report also confirmed that accurate information about changes to the state pension age was publicly available in leaflets , through the DWP pension education campaigns and DWP agencies and on its website . However , when considering the Department ’s actions between August 2005 and December 2007 , the ombudsman came to the view that they resulted in 1950s - born women receiving individual notice later than they might have done had different decisions been made . I welcome the wide - ranging contributions from Members on behalf of their constituents .