Before we begin today ’s proceedings , I would like to draw the House ’s attention to the new shield commemorating our late colleague Sir David Amess , which was unveiled earlier today at a small gathering of his family . Sir David was a dedicated constituency MP and a powerful advocate for Southend - on - Sea , which was granted city status last year in his honour . He was a committed campaigner for the causes he believed in — most notably , animal welfare — and a highly respected and valued colleague , known to Members in all parts of the House for his kindness , his generosity and , of course , his friendship to all . He is sorely missed . This year and last year , the Government have provided £ 94 billion of cost of living support in England . In education , more than a third of children get free school meals . University tuition fees have been frozen and we have provided £ 276 million of student premium to help the most disadvantaged students . It is precisely because of the figures the hon . Lady sets out that we are helping students , with £ 276 million to try to ensure we help the most disadvantaged students . Her own university — she mentioned Nottingham University — gives a £ 1,000 bursary to disadvantaged students . We are also giving up to £ 90 billion of extra help to disadvantaged families , we have frozen tuition fees and we look at loan repayments if family incomes fall below 15 % , so we are doing everything possible to support the most disadvantaged to get higher education . There has been a 30 % increase in the per - head funding to schools in Devon for their special educational needs provision , and the whole thrust of our reform plan is to make the system work better for parents and families and get the support for their children at the stage when they need it . We have already begun the reform programme and have just launched the nine change partnerships , which are already starting to make a difference to the provision . I would just say to the hon . Lady that this is yet another area where the Labour party has absolutely no policies whatsoever . We are revolutionising our skills offering by introducing 172 higher technical qualifications at more than 140 providers at levels 4 and 5 . This includes £ 150 million for providers and £ 300 million for 21 institutes of technology . I note that the Opposition want to rebadge institutes of technology as technical colleges of excellence . In our view , all our colleges are places of technical excellence .