Supporting young carers is a key priority for this Government . My hon . Friend is a real champion on these issues , and I am very happy to work with him to ensure that the views of young carers are heard in this place . The Government have tabled amendments to the information sharing and consistent identifier duties in clause 4 . The wider picture is that children are too often failed by inadequate or patchy information sharing , which is not good enough . The Bill enables us to make the change that children need , and the amendments will ensure that we get that right from the outset . These amendments will ensure that where those in scope engage others to provide services related to safeguarding or promoting the welfare of children , such as primary care providers , the duties will also extend to the providers of those services . This is not intended to cover providers engaged by those in scope for other purposes that may incidentally engage with the relevant functions — for example , IT service providers or interpreters — but do not independently hold information that is not already available to the agencies in scope . This will be clarified in statutory guidance . The Government have also tabled amendments to clauses 4 , 13 and 18 to ensure that the Bill ’s information sharing powers and duties contain standard provisions , where appropriate . These amendments are required to make it clear that data protection legislation will and must be complied with , to ensure that appropriate restrictions on the sharing of data — such as a duty of confidence — do not prevent the sharing of data , and to ensure drafting consistency across the Bill . The Government have also tabled amendments that allow information about a provider ’s financial risk to be shared between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission . After 14 years of inaction , failing outcomes and soaring costs , it is long past time for the Government to make these changes to secure both higher capacity and more resilience among providers . Again , the amendments before us today will make sure we get those changes right . There are providers that operate both adult and children ’s social care services . Some of these are very large and may therefore be subject to both our new children ’s social care financial oversight scheme and the Care Quality Commission ’s market oversight scheme , which has been operating for many years in the adult social care market . These amendments allow information to be shared between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission about a provider 's financial risk , particularly in advance of either oversight scheme issuing advance warning to local authorities . This will help the Department to form an accurate , real - time assessment of financial risk . The Government have also tabled amendments that will apply the relevant clauses to Wales , following the Welsh Government ’s agreement to their application . Members of this House , especially those representing Welsh constituencies , will already know the difference it makes to have Labour Governments in both London and Cardiff , not only putting our children first but working together constructively and at pace to deliver the change that children in every part of the United Kingdom deserve . I pay tribute to Lynne Neagle MS , the Cabinet Secretary for Education in the Welsh Government , for her help in ensuring that children in Wales , as well as in England , will benefit from the new protections in this Bill . The first group of amendments in this area will extend the application of the ill - treatment and wilful neglect offence in the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 to children aged 16 and 17 in regulated establishments in Wales , as well as in England . The current gap in the legal framework means it is not possible to prosecute individuals for low - level abuse of 16 and 17 - year - olds in regulated children ’s social care establishments or youth detention accommodation . The current offences in sections 20 and 21 apply to both England and Wales , and an amendment seeks to maintain that application in relation to the amended offence . Secondly , an amendment will extend the application of deprivation of liberty orders to Wales , enabling Welsh local authorities to seek authorisation to deprive children of liberty in relevant accommodation in England . We recognise the importance of keeping children close to home , within their safe and loving communities , where this is possible and in the best interests of the child . However , in some circumstances , where it keeps a child safe from harm , a cross - border placement is the right option . This amendment will ensure that , where a cross - border placement that deprives liberty is in the best interests of the child , the child can either be placed by Welsh local authorities in a secure children ’s home , as at present , or be deprived of their liberty in relevant accommodation in England that may better suit their needs . In both cases , the legislative consent motion process is engaged , as the measure applies to Wales and falls within the legislative competence of the Senedd Cymru . We are working closely with the Welsh Government on this . We continue to have conservations with the Scottish Government on extending the measure to local authorities in Scotland . To conclude , the Children ’s Wellbeing and Schools Bill is a landmark piece of legislation , through which we are delivering the biggest overhaul to children ’s social care in a generation . Our actions will transform children ’s lives , keeping children safe and ensuring opportunity and better life chances for all children . I am grateful to all right hon . and hon . Members who have made efforts to improve the Bill for their scrutiny and for the debate so far . I would also like to extend my thanks to all the individuals and organisations who contributed to the development of the Bill and submitted evidence , including the witnesses at the Bill Committee ’s oral evidence sessions . We will continue to work closely with those organisations throughout the passage of the Bill . I look forward to hearing further contributions and debate from Members this afternoon on the Bill , as we continue to work across the House and beyond to break down the barriers to opportunity and give every child the best start in life . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Siân Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord Zöe Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Sarah Green Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill German Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Martin McCluskey