I begin by thanking you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker ’s whole team for all your support this year . It has been much appreciated . Speaking in the second Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate is a huge privilege for me . It is wonderful to hear so many warm wishes and memories , which I know are of great comfort to Lady Amess and the whole family . Many people have said to me , “ When is a plaque going to go up in this Chamber to commemorate Sir David ? ” . I am delighted to tell the House that that plaque has now been designed . It is nearly ready . I know we are not allowed to use props , and I will not , but I want to tell the House that if anyone wants to come and see the plaque , it is extremely beautiful . I have a copy on the Bench here . The motto says , “ His light remains ” , which I think is incredibly apt . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] I must start by saying how delighted Sir David would have been that the Boundary Commission has decided not to break up his beloved Southend West constituency , and I am delighted that I will continue to represent the people of the Eastwood and St Laurence wards . I look forward to adding the people from St Lukes ward . Our new outstanding sports reporter at the Echo , Chris Phillips , recently played tennis for 11 hours non - stop to raise money for South East and Central Essex Mind , raising £ 12,000 . That takes his total fundraising to more than £ 100,000 . He is a community hero . It is also wonderful to know that Leigh - on - Sea will be recognised in our constituency name . It was , after all , named in the Domesday Book . I must declare an interest , because it is where I was born . Next , I must highlight our great success in the May elections . Sir David would have loved the fact that we now have 14 Conservative town councillors — a comfortable majority on Leigh - on - Sea Town Council — and that we took back control of Southend - on - Sea City Council with two new Conservative councillors , including the excellent Owen Cartey in West Leigh , who happens to be my councillor . I am also delighted this year to welcome as mayor Councillor Stephen Habermel of Chalkwell , with his chosen charities Havens Hospices and the incredible , awe - inspiring Music Man Project , which some Members heard playing brilliantly again last night in College Green . They recently played at No . 10 , and there was not a dry eye in the house . They are soon to come to Parliament . People often ask me , “ What have you been doing for our constituency ? What are your priorities ? ” . My first priority this last year has been to make Southend West safer . I am delighted that we now have 83 more police officers , three new sets of knife detection poles and new CCTV cameras in Old Leigh . Our pioneering Operation Union is not only being repeated this summer , but being rolled out nationwide . Thanks to the inspirational Julie Taylor , we have bleed kits available in ever more pubs and clubs . I am particularly delighted that by working with the brilliant local policeman , Inspector Paul Hogben , our Conservative police and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst , and the Home Office , we are soon to ban nitrous oxide , and zombie knives in all their forms will soon be completely outlawed in private places . That will make Southend safer , and that is much to be commended . I must also commend Eastwood Academy which , through me , fed into the recent Home Office consultation . That is not all . Making Southend West healthier has also been a top priority , and with the support of this Conservative Government , my hon . Friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and my right hon . Friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , we have secured the delivery of more than £ 8 million for a reconfigured A&E department at Southend University Hospital , more than £ 1 million for a new active discharge lounge , 11 new ambulances and 111 new ambulance staff . With other south Essex colleagues , we have finally secured from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care an absolute promise that the remaining £ 110 million pledged to improve our local hospitals is secure , and we await an updated in - scope business plan . I pay tribute to the work of those from the Lady McAdden Breast Cancer Trust who , with their knitted knockers , will be returning to Parliament during Breast Cancer Awareness Week this autumn . Thanks to the work of Sam Batstone , we now have free suncream dispensers along some of our beaches . Working with Chalkwell Lifeguards , I have sponsored one of them myself , and I thank Philip Miller , the CEO of Adventure Island , for sponsoring another . I thank everybody who works so hard in our NHS in Southend West for the incredible work that they do . That is one of the reasons I am campaigning for a dedicated NHS medal to recognise their outstanding service , just as we already have for the police , the Army , the Post Office and the fire service . Of course , that is not all . My third priority has been to make Southend West wealthier , so I am delighted we kicked of the year by being given the pier of the year award . I know the pier is not in Southend West , but as many Members know , Sir David strayed right across Southend in this place and in his patch . Southend is already home to incredible music , theatre and arts , which is why I want to see us finally become a city of culture in 2029 . I have been to at least 50 productions in the past year alone , including by the brilliant Love2Sign choir , the Southend Operatic and Dramatic Society , Leigh Orpheus , Cantare , the Show Choir and the Eastwood Chorale , to name but a few . We have an incredible seaside and underwater heritage , including the London shipwreck . We have five blue flag beaches — the most anywhere in the east of England — and the biggest ferris wheel in the south - east . We have had eight seaside awards , and we have a growing number of octopuses , dolphins , porpoises and seals . Of course , no city can prosper without a thriving local economy , which is why I was delighted to spearhead a new banking hub at Leigh Broadway , and to help our fishermen — Osborne ’s , Deal ’s and Fruits of the Sea — to negotiate their new fishing licences . We must have a transport system fit for a city , and with this Conservative Government , that is exactly what we are going to get . We now have a new bus route , 12 new state - of - the - art trains , with contactless ticketing coming , and upgrades to the A13 . I have been very clear that we must not lose any of our ticketing staff at any of the stations in my patch . There are heroes everywhere in Southend West , which is why I have had to launch a community heroes scheme , alongside my local papers , the Echo and the Leigh - on - Sea News . I thank and pay tribute to their editors , Chris Hatton and Mike Guy , for their support in making this happen . Already nominated by the community , we have had community heroes Jill Allen - King , Chalkwell Lifeguards , the Love2Sign choir , Anne Thurgood , Sharon Gatland , Brenda Barnes , Claire Harper , Steve Ellis , Jack Venturini , David Dutton , Bob Haze and 14 - year - old Maryse Fisher , with many others to come . Of course , that is not all . In time - honoured fashion , I must also recognise the work of the Bluetits , Southend Against Sewage and all 29 of our local headteachers . With 28 of our 29 schools being good or outstanding , I welcome wholeheartedly the £ 78.6 billion of record funding for our schools .