It is a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . As you can not speak from the Chair , may I say what a doughty champion you are for the reopening of Manston airport , in your constituency ? First , I thank my hon . Friends the Members for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) and for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) for securing the debate and for the work they have done on the Transport Committee . I am grateful for all Members ’ important , interested and varied contributions , and will try to address as many as humanly possible — there were an awful lot of questions in many of them . I know that Members are anxious for news on specific schemes in their local areas , but I will not be able to announce any new decisions today . We will make announcements in due course through the usual processes . Let me address the comments made by the Transport Committee Chair about how spending is linked to the Department ’s strategic objectives . Our spending is wholly orientated towards delivering this Government ’s missions and our plan for change . At the heart of our approach is harnessing transport to drive growth , as better transport will connect people and opportunities and ensure that businesses can grow and thrive . That is why we are investing in vital public transport services , repairing our road networks , transforming our railways and providing unprecedented investment for local leaders to invest in their priorities . Five out of the first 10 Bills in this Session were on transport — we did not have five transport Bills in 14 years under the last Government . We are moving at pace . In the financial year 2025 - 26 alone , we are delivering £ 1.6 billion for local road maintenance , £ 1.3 billion for local transport in our big city regions and over £ 1 billion for bus services . We are also providing more than £ 420 million for our smaller cities , towns and rural areas , as has been mentioned today . Our investments will help to drive growth in every part of the country and raise living standards for everyone . We are supporting the transition to net zero and an economy powered by clean energy , with more than £ 200 million to accelerate the roll - out of electric vehicle charge points this year . We are investing in active travel infrastructure to improve the health of the nation , with an additional £ 150 million of investment in cycling and walking infrastructure in this financial year alone . We are supporting bus services and capping fares to connect people to jobs and to boost opportunity . We are also supporting safer streets by making public transport safer — including , most importantly , for women and girls . Across our work , we are making sure that every penny of taxpayers ’ money is put to good use , from greater efficiency within the Department to getting to grips with the spiralling costs of HS2 and bringing that project back on track . Although this debate concerns the estimates for 2025 - 26 , I note that only two weeks ago , the Chancellor set out how our ambitions for the transport sector will last the whole of this Parliament . With the settlement we have received for 2026 onwards , we will deliver increased local transport investment in England ’s towns and cities , prioritising funding in the north and the midlands and giving local areas more control over how the money is spent . We will improve everyday journeys across this country and invest in the critical national infrastructure needed to connect our cities and our towns in the long term , enabling economic growth . This will ensure that transport plays its part in delivering the plan for change and a decade of national renewal . I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for her speech . She asked me a number of questions about when we will publish the outcome delivery plan . This will be done by all Departments , co - ordinated through the Cabinet Office , later this year . She asked about subsidiarity , and what happens if mayors do not use the money and new powers we have given them on the things that we want to do , citing active travel as an example . Even with subsidiarity , mayors have to deliver against Government outcomes and objectives , and we hope to work with them in a spirit of co - operation to ensure that that is done right . My hon . Friend asked what our bus reform and £ 1 billion investment was meant to achieve . We introduced the new £ 3 fare cap on single bus fares in England outside London , which has had the cap for a long time , ensuring that millions of people have access to affordable fares and better opportunities to both go to college and work and to see friends and family . With UK SHORE , we have moved fast with the decarbonisation plan , and the research and development funding for this will continue . We have worked internationally with the International Maritime Organisation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our planet . We have also announced £ 185 million through safer roads funds to invest in the 99 most risky A roads , and we have made clear commitments on rail cost base and subsidy . The right hon . Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the former Rail Minister , is a doughty champion for Aldridge station — well done to her for that . The money was reallocated by the current mayor to cover the costs of schemes implemented by the former mayor that did not have the funding . She also talked about buses ; I have already mentioned the £ 1 billion that we have invested in better buses . My hon . Friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , who can not be in his seat at the moment , is an astonishing champion for Bradford . May I pay tribute to him and to Councillor Susan Hinchcliffe , the leader of Bradford city council , for their work in this area ? The £ 2.1 billion train line and bus station investment is transformative . Some £ 35 million of Government money will see an additional five daily services to London , and we will be making announcements in the next few weeks regarding Northern Powerhouse Rail and how important it is to connect the cities of Leeds , Bradford , Manchester and Liverpool .