With permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the continuing work to fix buildings with unsafe cladding across England , and the Government ’s increasing determination to enforce against those who fail to take responsibility . Since the beginning of 2023 , there has been a step change in all aspects of remediation in England , from a limited programme to full coverage of all residential buildings over 11 metres ; from developers not taking responsibility to their now being responsible for £ 3 billion of remediation across more than 1,500 buildings ; from just over 1,600 buildings in remediation programmes last year to over 4,000 now ; from 783 buildings having started or completed work in February 2023 to over 1,800 now ; and from only 461 having completed last February to 863 now . Every month more buildings are identified , and more are beginning and completing works . That means that for some , albeit not all , the end is in sight . From the start , we have prioritised the remediation of the highest risk buildings . Ninety - eight per cent of high - rise buildings with the most dangerous Grenfell - style aluminium composite material cladding have either started or completed work . Of the 10 occupied buildings remaining , two will start work this month and enforcement is being taken against a further six . Substantial progress can also be seen for buildings over 18 metres , with over half of known buildings having either started or completed work . The much more extensive work required for buildings between 11 metres and 18 metres is well under way . Since the full launch of the cladding safety scheme last July , over 400 buildings in the scheme have live applications . Grant funding agreements have been completed or are being signed for 152 buildings , and works have started on site for the first building . A further 4,000 buildings are being investigated and , where necessary , will be invited to apply to the scheme in the months ahead . Further transparency is being brought to the social housing sector . Registered providers report that work has started on 525 buildings as of the end of November 2023 , up from 394 at the end of August 2023 . A further 200 have now been completed . For the first time , last Thursday we published detailed information on a provider - by - provider basis , which will be updated quarterly to ensure that residents can track what their individual provider is doing on remediation . While many buildings are being fixed or , better still , have completed remediation , there remains a reducing core of building owners who continue to hold up remediation . That is unacceptable . The Government continue to do whatever is necessary to change that . All building owners must step up , do the right thing and fix their buildings without delay , or face the consequences of their inaction . The Government are leading the way on enforcement , with strategic interventions by our recovery strategy unit targeting the most egregious actors who are unwilling to make their buildings safe . The RSU was key to forcing Wallace Estates to agree to four remediation orders , ensuring that 400 leaseholders will be safe in their homes . Our legal action forced Grey GR , a subsidiary of Railpen , to fix building safety defects at Galbraith House within three weeks . The first trial against Grey GR for Vista Tower in Stevenage is imminent . Nine remediation contribution orders were taken out against three further organisations last week , including developers , to recover funds paid out by both taxpayers and leaseholders to fix buildings . We will continue to take action against those who do not step up to their responsibilities . Colleagues in the fire and rescue services and local councils are critical to the fight to ensure that residents are safe , and we are working with them to increase action . Many councils and fire and rescue services are doing a good job , but some need to do more . Over the last year , the additional funding that we have provided for councils has meant that the pace of enforcement has stepped up markedly . Councils are informing us of enforcement action at a rate of four per week , compared with one per month in 2022 , and we expect that to accelerate further . To support that , today we are publishing our first league table , outlining where enforcement is being taken so that residents can see exactly what is happening and where . We will regularly update the league table to ensure that the public remains sighted on their authorities ’ enforcement activity . Our focus now is on more , and more consistent , enforcement . Last week , I met the Building Safety Regulator and sector leaders to discuss how we can build a shared plan to increase the pace of remediation further . Today , I am announcing a number of initiatives to boost enforcement : a further £ 6 million to council enforcement teams , the development of a new regulatory protocol for greater consistency and a new fund that partners can access for legal support in complex cases . For a task as big as this , remediation of buildings with issues was always going to take time . There is no doubt that in some parts of the sector it is still taking far too long . Yet already , almost 60,000 homeowners have peace of mind that remediation is complete , and a further 300,000 dwellings are well on the way to the same . Every week that goes by , more is done : there are more starts and more completions and , vitally , more of those who are unwilling to do the right thing are being exposed . We will not stop until we have fixed cladding issues . Today , I hope the House can see the real and accelerating progress that is being made .