Let me begin by expressing thanks to all those who have contributed to this debate so far — I am sure that there will be many more after me — and to the hon . and learned Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . He has set out his view to the House with the same ardour as he did a fortnight ago , although at greater length than he was allowed to in Westminster Hall , and he made his case during his time in Stormont as well . It is important to restate to him what my right hon . Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland said to this House a fortnight ago , which is that the Government want Northern Ireland to prosper and flourish as an important part of the Union . On that , many of us will find agreement . We are here to do what is best for the people of Northern Ireland . I also reiterate the Government ’s commitment to both the Windsor framework and to the UK internal market . It was on that point that the Secretary of State respectfully disagreed with the hon . and learned Member for North Antrim in this House a fortnight ago . I will set out the Government ’s objection to this Bill , which is not compatible with international law , does not account for Northern Ireland ’s unique circumstances , and would take away powers that are given to the Northern Ireland Assembly to make decisions about Northern Ireland . It would result in a regulatory black hole that would be very bad for businesses , jobs , growth , the Northern Ireland economy and the rest of the United Kingdom . I will start by outlining some of the good news for the Northern Ireland economy — news that shows what the Windsor framework , the prospect of stability , the Executive returning , and the stability of a new Labour Government are doing for the economic outlook in Northern Ireland . The Northern Ireland composite economic index indicates that economic output increased by 0.4 % over the quarter to June 2024 and by 2.3 % over the year . Ulster University ’s economic policy centre shows that Northern Ireland has a forecasted growth rate of 1.4 % in 2024 and 1.7 % in 2025 . The region ’s economy is performing better than was expected at the start of the year . This has been driven by strong growth in employment , particularly in the transport , construction and health sectors . The Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency ’s interdepartmental business register shows that the number of businesses registered for VAT or pay - as - you - earn operating in Northern Ireland in 2022 is estimated to have risen by 1,550 since 2021 to 77,640 , and is continuing to increase . I could go on and on ; I have a longer list of the good news stories for Northern Ireland . The economy is working , but all the businesses I speak to talk about the need for stability , and the underlying premise of this Bill would change that stability . We would go into uncertainty and chaos , which would not be good for the Northern Ireland economy .