It is a privilege to make my maiden speech among such an outstanding group of people . I hope that people who have seen the maiden speeches over the past few days , and will watch them in the days , weeks and months to come , might see some of the warmth , kindness and decency that I have met in my fellow MPs in these first couple of weeks in Parliament . I am the newly elected Member for the beautiful constituency of Worthing West . Nestled between the south downs and the English channel , we are often described as that area just west of our big sister , Brighton . But , as with all younger sisters , we have many often unsung merits , about which it will be my absolute pleasure to tell the House a little today . Worthing West is made up of two thirds of Worthing town , the other third now being ably represented by my hon . Friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) . In this part of my constituency people can find Worthing town centre , our beautiful old lido building , and the recently returned Worthing wheel . Before being elected to Parliament , I had the great privilege of being the leader of Worthing council . Our vision for Worthing is for it to be both the fairest and the greenest coastal town in the UK , an ambition that I am sure my coastal colleagues will try to wrestle from me . Alongside an ambitious decarbonisation plan , work on Worthing ’s town centre gardens will begin this autumn in a community and council - led project . We are also privileged to be part of the Sussex Bay project , a movement of radical collaboration initiated by Adur & Worthing Councils with the mission of restoring a healthy blue ecosystem to our seas and waterways in which nature , people and the local economy can thrive . Worthing West is also home to the beautiful coastal and country villages of Ferring , East Preston , Angmering , Findon , Clapham and Patching . I can tell any keen campers — I have not been in Parliament long enough to know how many MPs actually like being without wi - fi and a good latte , but I am hoping to find a few — that the Fox Wood campsite in Patching is a firm local favourite . There are two very handy pubs near the site , The Fox and The Worlds End , which serve the most excellent food when your fire will not light and even the kids are sick of beans on toast . I am only the second Member of Parliament to represent Worthing West . It was first formed in 1974 , and for the past 30 years has been represented by Sir Peter Bottomley , who I know was very well respected here as the Father of the House . He was known for working cross - party on a variety of important campaigns , including leasehold reform and the infected blood scandal . Sir Peter and I share a great affection for Worthing West , and during the election campaign we often bumped into each other enjoying a quick cuppa with constituents . I should confess at this point that I am a northerner originally , adopted by the south as one of its own , and a good brew is a must - have for a day to start and end well . We have many excellent cafés in our area . To anyone who is listening to my speech and thinking that this newbie MP is not doing too bad a job of selling the merits of her home town , I can thoroughly recommend the cakes at Sea Lane café on Goring beach , the coffee at both Coast café and Finch in Worthing town centre , and the breakfast at the Bluebird café in Ferring , among many others . At this point , I should also confess that my extolling of the virtues of cake — and all credit to the House staff for the incredible muffins in the parliamentary café — is tempered by the fact that I am by profession a medical doctor , and , as my children will testify , I am reasonably obsessed with making sure that cake is part of a healthy balance that allows us to enjoy all the different types of food . To be fair , my children would not necessarily recognise that description and might just say that their mum is a bit of a nag with a carrot obsession and an aversion to playing computer games for too long , but such are the joys of parenthood . When people ask what type of doctor I am — and I definitely do not have the patience for a PhD — the response that I am a public health consultant is often met with slightly puzzled stares , a recalibration of what they have heard , and the decision that I am probably a GP by another name . However , I am delighted to join my hon . Friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) to represent public health here in the House . It is the reason I chose to go into politics . It is the art and science ofkeeping populations well and helping people to live healthy lives . I appreciate that today ’s debate primarily concerns home affairs and immigration , so I will talk about public health on the basis of the explicit principle that health is essential in all things to ensure safety and security for all people . As part of my public health training I spent time with the Health Protection Agency , now part of Public Health England . That training stood me in particularly good stead during the pandemic , when I found myself with a daily slot on BBC Radio Sussex talking about covid , debunking myths and providing reassurance that our fantastic scientists and public health specialists were doing everything possible to develop vaccinations and to keep us safe . The results of the covid inquiry , published last week , revealed the clear conclusion that investment in preventive measures is always money well spent , and that was sadly lacking before the pandemic . Public health funding was cut by 25 % between 2015 and 2024 , so there are some salient lessons to be learned quickly about prevention being better than cure . My time in local government , as a public health consultant and subsequently as a councillor and council leader , taught me that politics is often the frontline where we grapple with the issues that arise from inequality and inequity — two indicators which tell us that the decisions made by those of us in a position of influence are not yet decisions that are maximising the health and wellbeing of the people we represent . The resources required to meet basic human needs should be available to everyone , regardless of where we live or which family we are born into . For people like me in public health and politics , there is a wealth of data and evidence — as well as , I would contend , basic common sense — showing that when resources are not allocated fairly to allow everyone ’s basic human needs to be met , we all suffer for it . People do not thrive without clean water , clean air , access to green space and good food . Our physical bodies become far less resilient to illness when those are not available to us , and the same is true of poor housing , poor education and poor jobs . The causal link between poor housing conditions and poor health outcomes is long established , with health outcomes associated with poor housing costing the NHS an estimated £ 1.4 billion every year . We know that exposure to poor housing conditions , including damp , cold , mould and noise , is strongly associated with poor health , both physical and mental . Inequalities in life expectancy are increasing , especially for women . In Worthing West , a woman living in one of our poorest areas will live an average of 8.3 years less than a woman living in one of our wealthiest areas , and for the population as a whole , the time spent in poor health is increasing . As Sir Michael Marmot so saliently put it , “ If health has stopped improving it is a sign that society has stopped improving . ” When people become physically and mentally ill , potential is lost , and before you know it , your country does not have a national health service ; it has an overwhelmed national sickness service . I am so proud and privileged to be part of the Labour intake of 2024 . For too long now , our politics has been making people sick . This is the start of a journey that I very much hope will lead to a politics that helps to keep people well for many generations to come . Reducing inequality and inequity will allow everyone to do better . The politics of health is the narrative of our nation . A Government who focus on the health and wellbeing of the people we serve are a Government who enable us to rise together to face the challenges of both today and tomorrow . I am grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate . I am in awe of the maiden speeches and all the other speeches that have been made today and on previous days . The standard and quality of both this intake and longer - serving Members is inspiring . I am filled with excitement , pride and belief in what we can achieve in the years to come . It is a truly exciting time . I am honoured and privileged to speak as the Member for Rossendale and Darwen , my home . I am very aware that this could happen only because of a huge amount of hard work by friends and Labour colleagues across the constituency , and of course because of the decision made by so many of my fellow residents to put their trust in me and a changed Labour party . I offer my heartfelt thanks to everyone who put me in this place . I will do my very best not to let them down . My constituency and home is a special place . Indeed , I was tempted to say that it represents the very best of Lancashire but , wary of controversy , I will simply say that it is a wonderful part of a wonderful county . It is a post - industrial place of moors , hills and valleys that frame the communities of Darwen , Whitworth , Bacup , Crawshawbooth , Stacksteads , Weir , Waterfoot , Rawtenstall , Edenfield , Helmshore and the west Pennine villages — I will have missed one out , so I am sure I will be shot as soon as I get home . In representing my home , I succeed Sir Jake Berry , who served our constituency for 14 years . I pay tribute to him for his service and , in particular , his work campaigning on provision for children with special educational needs . Rossendale and Darwen is very much a swing seat . Prior to 2010 , we had been splendidly represented by Janet Anderson . I was pleased and proud to call Janet a friend . We sadly lost her last year , but I will always remember her as a true role model of a constituency MP . She was always available , always responsive , always engaged and always willing to roll up her sleeves and get stuck in . What more can I say about Rossendale and Darwen ? I will spare Members a full geography lesson and go for some fun - ish facts . First , the constituency is a quirk of boundary commission methodology that will forever remain a mystery to us . There is little historical or physical connection between Rossendale and Darwen . Indeed , drivers have to leave the constituency to travel between the two halves . Rossendale was once known as the “ golden valley ” and lay at the very heart of the industrial revolution . Indeed , a book on that time by local author Chris Aspin is subtitled “ When Rossendale led the world . ” We are also referred to as the “ valley of stone , ” and the flagstones in Trafalgar Square come from a Rossendale quarry . Crown , in Darwen , is Britain ’s oldest paint maker . In 1931 , Mahatma Gandhi came to meet mill workers in Darwen , seeking to understand the hardships they were facing — on reflection , that in itself is quite remarkable . He said , “ they treated me as one of their own . I shall never forget that . ” This sense of inclusion and understanding remains . We have many wonderful community organisations and , while being reluctant to single anyone out , I must pay tribute to the vital work done in my hometown by the Bacup family centre and Bacup Pride , and across the constituency by our volunteer - led food banks and credit unions , and Keep Darwen Tidy and Civic Pride Rossendale , to which I wish the best of luck in Britain in Bloom judging this week . Something we are less proud of is that Rossendale is the only local authority area in the north without any sort of commuter railway service , which is a fact that I hope the Secretary of State for Transport , my right hon . Friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , does not become too bored of hearing . I have a few more . Darwen is home to Darwen Live , the UK’s — and possibly Europe’s — biggest free music festival . Mr Fitzpatrick ’s in Rawtenstall is Britain ’s last surviving temperance bar . Darwen football club was formed in 1870 and was the first club in the world to have professionally paid players . And Brent Peters , manager of Bacup Borough football club , is said to be the longest - serving manager in world football . Rossendale and Darwen are distinct places , each with a deep history . At the same time , they have much in common . I was in many ways heartened that , during the campaign , one of my most frequent asks was for a better politics . The people of Rossendale and Darwen are honest and hard - working . They value integrity , co - operation and community service , and they want to see this in their politicians . I believe this reflects a feeling across the country , and hence it is a great opportunity and responsibility for us . With over 300 new MPs , we have a real chance to set a new tone , to work together across the House and to hold to the standards that our residents expect of us . A less positive thing that Rossendale and Darwen have in common is a concern about the direction in which too many of our schools have been heading . Too many parents agonise over the choice , or lack of choice , available to them . It simply must not be the case that a child ’s future is determined by an education lottery . That every school be a good school is an imperative we must hold to , and I am proud to see our new Labour Government committing to removing barriers to opportunity , raising school standards and ensuring that the school system is fair for every child . Another commonality is our topography — hills , crags , moors and valleys . I am a climber and cyclist , and these are my playgrounds . I am fortunate to have enjoyed an active life , which has turned into a career . It has taken me to amazing places , and I know that I am healthier , wiser and happier as a result . In many ways , what these sports have taught me is what has brought me here . It is a sad fact that , in the UK today , nearly 40 % of the population is not active enough for good health . This contributes to one in six deaths and is estimated to cost the UK economy £ 7.6 billion annually . Yet physical activity can help to prevent and manage over 20 chronic diseases and conditions , including some cancers , heart disease , type 2 diabetes and depression . Overall , it is recognised that £ 1 spent on physical activity generates £ 4 of benefits in return . In short , investing in physical activity is a no - brainer . It has been heartening to see the importance of prevention recognised so clearly in our manifesto , in this debate and , indeed , at Question Time this morning . Sport and physical activity can change lives , and they can save lives . Active lives start young , yet around 50 % of under-18s do not get enough exercise . How often do we hear kids telling us that “ there is nothing to do around here ” ? I believe that every child should feel they have full and inclusive access to the countryside and to recreational facilities that give them the opportunity to live active lives , escape constraints and explore their potential . I believe this mission underpins many others , and I look forward to speaking again on this subject in the years to come . The hills of Rossendale matter to me in other ways . On the moors close to home we scattered the ashes of our daughter , Mallorie . She had been born in Burnley hospital with Edward ’s syndrome , a condition we were told is not compatible with life . Her time with us was short but her impact on our lives was great . The support we had from Burnley hospital and local baby loss charity Friends of Serenity was vital . While Edward ’s syndrome is rare , it is far from being the only cause of baby loss . Every day , an average of 13 families suffer the pain of baby loss — that is around 5,000 families a year . Some reports suggest that up to one in five of those family tragedies are avoidable . There is a growing movement around baby loss awareness . Indeed , in October we have Baby Loss Awareness Week . I hope to use my time in this House to support the ongoing drive for greater care and support for the families affected by baby loss and for continued improvement in its prevention . It is customary to pay tribute to the speaker before me for his first contribution to this House , but , let us face it , that was quite a polished contribution that he has had 21 years to prepare — so thank you to him . This is my maiden speech as the first woman to represent Darlington from the Government Benches . I wish to pay tribute to Baroness Chapman , the first female MP for Darlington , for paving the way . She smashed that glass ceiling and now I have the privilege of serving our town in a Labour Government . Representation matters , and I will use my platform to highlight the issues facing women in the town — issues such as low - paid work , additional care responsibilities , the childcare crisis , menopause discrimination , maternity services and poor paternity rights . I will also be a champion for women ’s health and support services . I wish to pay tribute to the work of our police and crime commissioner , my friend Joy Allen and her team , on ending violence against women and girls in the town and to Harbour and Family Help , which do exceptional work in very difficult times . I am proud that this Labour Government will bring forward strong legislation to tackle this important issue . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Peter Gibson , first for his respect throughout the general election campaign and secondly for his work ethic . Trust in politicians across both sides of this House is at an all - time low , and Mr Gibson worked tirelessly to communicate positively to everyone in Darlington about the work that he was doing . People thanked him for it , and I will emulate it . I genuinely wish him well . I am a product of my constituency and proud of it . I am from good stock : west end star Zoe Birkett of “ Pop Idol ” fame went to my high school ; “ Big Brother ” winner and men ’s mental health campaigner Anthony Hutton is a Darlington resident ; and we have a proud and active veterans community . In fact , two of the brilliant Doorkeepers in this Chamber told me earlier that they know Darlington well because of their training at Catterick Garrison , just outside my constituency . I thank Dan Smith , an active campaigner for veteran support in Darlington , for his work for our town and for his friendship to me during the campaign . We have a bustling business and hospitality community across the town . We have Dan the Bakerman , whose sourdough is nationally acclaimed , the Echo 3 and Hatch coffee houses , which keep me caffeinated , and Claire from the Cheese & Wine Shop who herself welcomed our Prime Minister and Chancellor very recently . We have a brilliant sporting community , from Spraire Lads football team , which my brother used to play for , to the Headlanders netball club and the Hundens Lane bowls club to name just a few . It would be remiss of me not to mention the Quakers , Darlington ’s football club , which have a very famous alumni in the Three Lions ’ best ever goalkeeper , Jordan Pickford . Like many of us from Darlington , I love the town , I like a laugh , I work hard and I do not like to be taken for a fool . I was sent here to right the wrongs that have led to too many in our town being let down , and I will do just that . I will not lose sight of those who sent me and went above and beyond to put their time and trust in me — my teachers , the St Augustine ’s community , my Labour family and , of course , my parents , my brothers and my husband , all of whom have had their personal lives thrust right into my political story , not entirely through choice , but in the name of our common goal , which is a better future for our community . I am lucky to be here . I got a second chance on a vocational master ’s degree at Newcastle University , where I was taught on the job how to be a journalist . I come from a long line of people who have done better for themselves than was expected for them and I will dedicate my time in Parliament to knocking down barriers to opportunity for everyone in our town , so that no matter their postcode they can live the life they want , well . I was inspired by those who went before me on our brilliant Northern Echo paper , which was founded in 1870 — two years after the constituency of Darlington — and still boasting fantastic campaigning journalists . They include Chris Lloyd , the town ’s historian — I am mentioning him in this speech so that he will help with my new blue plaque scheme for the town — and Kayleigh Fraser , who is still chasing me for a quote . Sorry , Kayleigh . This Saturday just gone , I had the joy of visiting a new tourist attraction in Darlington — Hopetown , named after the area of the town in which I grew up , where Darlington ’s famous contribution to the railways and the industrial revolution was based . The new attraction incorporates our railway heritage and has incredible artefacts , top - of - the - range art installations and digital interactive educational points to tell our story to visitors . I am telling Members this because I welcome everyone — on both sides of the House — to come and visit . When they do , they must try the Black Diamond ice cream ; it is already taking off on social media . I have huge pride in the town ’s industrial contribution and I am delighted to be the first Darlington Member to represent Heighington and Coniscliffe , and with them come their beautiful villages and even more railway history . Mr Deputy Speaker , this is for you to note especially . I learned something new about my home town this weekend . Before the establishment of the railways , our clocks were not standardised and Darlington operated a full four minutes behind Westminster , so , as those who know me well will attest , I still like to operate on Darlington time . As a nod to tradition , I shall be keeping to my town ’s original time for the duration of my time on these Benches . One of the artefacts that caught my eye in the museum , among the railway medals and the framed timetables , was an award from 2019 for the manufacturing giant Cleveland Bridge . Like so many brilliant companies over recent years , Cleveland Bridge has ceased trading . What makes this company particularly of note is its vast global contribution . It built the Sydney harbour bridge and , in fact , the former Health Secretary and Labour Darlington MP , the right hon . Alan Milburn , referenced it in his maiden speech two decades ago . I am determined that our manufacturing contribution in Darlington is not consigned to museums and the history books . We are proud people and we are grafters . We do not need handouts ; we need a Government who allow our brilliance to shine again . I have already had the excellent engineering firm Cummins to Parliament to discuss making our area a green hydrogen cluster and ensuring that hydrogen is at the heart of our decarbonisation strategy . I look forward to working with my neighbour , my hon . Friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , an expert in green hydrogen and the future of steel , in his new brief . Over the course of the campaign that led up to my election , the biggest thread from the people of Darlington , from people of every income , background and political persuasion , was that the cost of living is too high and public services are at breaking point . I firmly believe that this Government must urgently tackle the mental health crisis blighting our town and region . In my own network , I know seven men who have died by suicide . Mental health waiting times and services for men , mothers , children and veterans are way behind where they need to be . I will be relentless in my approach to improving our mental health services for everyone in our town . My right hon . Friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who I know shares my passion for equity between mental health and physical health , will not be able to avoid me , just as soon as I can work my way around the Palace labyrinth . As a woman in politics , I am frequently offered unsolicited advice and told that I need a thick skin , although I firmly believe that those with too thick a skin have been ruling this Chamber for too long , and I am here to represent ordinary people with compassion , because I am one of them . I am only too aware of the emboldening effect that online platforms give bullies and harassers . I think we have reached a fork in the road and I will use my position to stamp out online bullying , not just for those who are victims of it now , but for the next generation , who I believe we have a duty to protect . This Labour Government are committed to tackling climate change and wealth creation , and that is an opportunity for our region that must be grabbed with both hands . That is why I have already visited Hitachi with my neighbour and friend the hon . Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) , to put my full support behind efforts to secure the future of skilled and essential jobs at the Newton Aycliffe plant that employs many of my constituents . The Treasury and many other key Departments have a presence in my constituency , providing skilled graduate jobs , which we welcome and want to build on . I will be a champion for public money being better spent . I have made my career improving public procurement contracts , fighting for working people to earn a wage they can live on and have decent terms and conditions . I will use that experience to ensure that when public money is spent in Darlington , it provides the best possible bang for our buck in impact and outcomes for our town . I will be a loud voice on this issue and will work with everyone and anyone who believes , like I do , that we can get our regional economy thriving with decent jobs for local people , so that people can work hard and earn enough to save for their future , and have safe , secure housing and spend quality time with their families . I am very fortunate that the Chancellor will be visiting her second office in Darlington regularly and I am committed to maximising the opportunity that brings to benefit my community . My constituency and everyone in it has the potential for a bright future , and I will do everything I can to secure it . While I want to make our country better , my priority is improving the lives of those in my home town , those who raised me , those who have sent me here — the good people of Darlington . So , in keeping with my railway theme , full steam ahead ! I begin by thanking the people of Bassetlaw for putting me here . My commitment is to serve all residents to the best of my ability . I thank the hon . Member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) for his contribution , and I look forward to debating with him in this place . Today ’s debate has a direct link to the ongoing discussions on poverty . Having seen the last Government shut all three Bassetlaw police stations and both courthouses , I will have much to say on the issue in this Parliament . Crime and poverty have a clear connection . I need no lessons on how a lack of money impacts on children growing up — I lived it — but that experience taught me something far more valuable in understanding the impact of poverty and inequality , because what my family lacked in money , we more than made up for in love and in hopes and dreams . I was brought up to believe in me and what I could achieve . My mother got herself out of poverty because of the Open University , and my father made a choice all too familiar today . He gave up his engineering job to be a Sainsbury ’s warehouseman to guarantee cheaper food , and of course he served as a shop steward for USDAW . I remain proud of both my parents for what they did for me . I was a free school meal kid — separate queue , of course — and a free school uniform kid , with clothes from the jumble sale and no new , smart , bright white socks for me , but I had no poverty of aspiration , no holding back , no shutting down of my dreams . That is good parenting , backed by their hard work . I commuted six hours every day to complete my own studies , taking my newborn baby in a carrycot with me . That is what learning to aspire results in . I get the little mes so common in Bassetlaw and elsewhere : they are my people , my responsibility . Money is often a problem , but poverty of aspiration is much a bigger one to overcome . You are told that you can not do that , that this door is not for you , that you stink , that you are thick , that your hopes are only ever dreams and can never be realised ; well , this kid never stopped dreaming . Today ’s little mes — the ones who do without the flashy trainers , who play outside but never go inside the big sports stadiums or the posh restaurants and the cafés , who do not fly on aeroplanes or get taken to museums or theatres , who have never seen the King or his palace or Big Ben — in my area , in my constituency of Bassetlaw , are too often expected by this place to celebrate a rapidly changing world by getting to the back of the queue and behaving themselves . I am not having that . I drove trucks across the channel — the only woman in the drivers section on the ferries . Small boats — new problem ? The flight cases I drove were huge , with ventilation and a false bottom . The border sniffer dogs were an infrequent luxury . I regularly ran the gauntlet of organised crime and desperate people . My predecessor had the biggest swing in 2019 . I broke the record again but then quickly lost it to even more historic big swings to Labour . I know he likes his beer and I applaud his regular support for our local pubs , where he can drown his sorrows every time his beloved Notts County football club fails to deliver . I do not know whether he is planning on taking up golf , but Bassetlaw is the centre of British golf with seven serious golf courses , Ryder cup hosts and star players , and a magnificent municipal golf course . We regularly provide more of the Ryder cup team than entire golfing countries and Joe Dean of College Pines golf club showed the potential to reach these heights at the Open this weekend . From Danny Willett to Matt Fitzpatrick , we continue to grow international golfers — Lee Westwood , our freedom of the borough champion , continues to inspire our young boys and girls . He learned his trade on the council - run golf course , which is open and affordable to all . Nobody stopped me dreaming big and that is the Bassetlaw I intend to deliver . My style of being an MP will be outcomes - based . If I can do it , then so can you . Look not only at where you are , but at where you are going . This kid made it here and I put you all on warning : I will be knocking on the doors that kids in my area do not go through , and they will be coming with me , and I can assure you that I will channel my inner Michael Caine for those of you who choose to ignore my knock . The biggest single crime would be to get here , where people like me are not supposed to be , and merely sit here and make up the numbers . This kid has only just begun and there is no time to waste . It was inspirational to listen to the story of the hon . Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) and her determination to never stop dreaming . It was also inspirational and fantastic to hear maiden speeches from many others . I was interested to hear the competition among some Members about the length of piers in seaside towns . I hail from the great town of Eastbourne . While some hon . Members might have a longer pier than mine , it is important to remember that what you do with it is what is most important . On our pier we have cafés , we have bars and we have a former nightclub , at which I once organised parties . We have got it all going on on Eastbourne pier . But it is also an inspiration , looking around this House and reading about its Members , to see and be part of the most diverse Parliament ever : more women than ever before ; more LGBT people than ever before ; and more Joshes than ever before — this House ’s population of Joshes went from zero to seven overnight on 4 July . That is what we call an open - door policy . If Members struggle to remember which Josh I am , I can make it very simple for them : this Josh represents Eastbourne , officially the sunniest town in the UK . As an Eastbourne lad born and bred , it is the honour of my life to represent my home town and in particular to fight to protect services at our local hospital where I was born , the Eastbourne district general hospital , as our Member of Parliament . I am so grateful to the people of Eastbourne for placing their trust in me . Gorgeous sunrays aside , my town shines brightly in the many other accolades that it holds too . We are the home of the first roller - skating ice rink in the UK in 1875 , the first five - a - side football tournament in 1957 , and the birthplace of the Arctic roll in 1958 . Most personally , Eastbourne is the town that made me me . Home was not always safe when I was growing up , but thanks to a wonderful family who loved me , thanks to Scout leaders at 1st Seaside troop who challenged me , and thanks to teachers at Cavendish school who believed in me , Eastbourne gave me opportunity . In fact , there is a particular supply teacher I had who I want to pay tribute to right now : Caroline Ansell , who went on to become the Conservative MP for Eastbourne and is my predecessor . Mrs Ansell and I first met in the religious education classroom — room 116 in Cavendish school — when I was 15 years old . Perhaps she would have given me a detention or two had she known at that time that one day I would come for her next job at the ballot box some years later . But seriously , Caroline dedicated herself to Eastbourne , and I put my recognition of her commitment on the record . I also pay tribute to another predecessor : Stephen Lloyd , my good friend , whose service to our town inspires my own . He is a complete and utter legend . There is another predecessor as the Member of Parliament for Eastbourne whose memory this House can , and must , never forget : Ian Gow , who served from 1974 until he was appallingly assassinated in 1990 . A few years before my time , Ian Gow is remembered and still admired by Eastbournians as an extremely hard - working member of Parliament . The shield that honours him in this House serves as a reminder of his service , his grave sacrifice and our duty to pursue debate and disagreement with civility , respect and peace . Turning to the subject of this debate , I want to share a migration story that says a lot about the character of my town . It started on a summer ’s day in 1960s Eastbourne , when a sweet , retired lady , Mrs Baker , noticed a curious sight . She saw another lady , also white , pushing a small black boy in a pram . Mrs Baker , curious , struck up a conversation with that woman and asked what was going on . Mrs Baker learned that the boy had been sent to live with that woman by a young Nigerian couple , and she was caring for the boy while the couple studied in London . Inspired , Mrs Baker said that she would love to do the same . Coincidentally , the black boy ’s mother was pregnant again , and was for a third time a couple of years later . Babies 2 and 3 were sent to live with the Baker family in Eastbourne . They were Toki Babarinde and Wale Babarinde , my uncle and my dad , and it was part of a sort of private fostering arrangement that was not uncommon between west African families and white families at that time , although it was not without its complications . In my dad ’s case , and for his brothers too , moving to Eastbourne was a ticket to opportunity . They loved their upbringing and Eastbourne embraced them . Sadly , my uncle Toki died earlier this year . Sat in the chapel during his funeral , I turned behind me , and among a sea of Nigerian faces was one white lady also paying her respects : Charmaine Baker from the Baker family . That moment gave me goosebumps , just like those moments when old - school Eastbournians look at me in all my brownness , all my gayness and all my working - class - rootedness and say , “ Josh , you are one of our own . ” I share that story to say that while Eastbourne ’s hospitality traditions are often associated with the mighty bucket and spade , they go far deeper . Eastbourne ’s true hospitality traditions are of generosity , welcome , tolerance , multiculturalism and compassion . The story of how I ended up in this House is testament to that , and I believe that with those values the same goes for our country , regardless of what other Members in various places in this House may say . While our town benefits from more sunshine hours than any other in the country , that blaring sun sometimes casts shadows , too . I am gutted to say that Eastbourne is also home to the busiest food bank in the country . Last year , it distributed more food parcels per head than any other food bank in the UK , according to the Trussell Trust . That is why , working with Eastbourne food bank ’s inspirational CEO , Howard Wardle , I led Eastbourne to become the first council in the country to declare a cost of living emergency and to unlock emergency funding for those struggling most . It is also why I sincerely believe that the Government should be even more ambitious in leading the fight against poverty by scrapping the two - child benefit cap . A compassionate state is by no means a state that makes us soft or weak . In fact , care is power . We can not have enterprise , innovation or justice if we do not have a culture of care and compassion . That has underpinned my career ’s work , founding and running an organisation supporting vulnerable young people out of crime , out of gangs and into employment . Our constituents have sent us here to be bold in rebuilding and reimagining our great country ’s spirit of having one another ’s backs . As Eastbourne ’s MP , I will strive to achieve nothing less . I am honoured to deliver my maiden speech , and I thank the wonderful people of Barking who have elected me . If you will indulge me , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would also like to thank my wonderful husband , who has been by my side every step of the way . This year , 2024 , has been quite the year for us . With a new baby girl , seven months old , and a general election being called , sleep has not been on our side as a household . But of course it has all been worth it , and I now have the absolute privilege of representing the east London constituency of Barking . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , the right hon . Dame Margaret Hodge , who served diligently as the Member of Parliament for Barking for three decades . Dame Margaret has become known not only for her tenaciousness , but for her warmth . She held several ministerial posts in the last Labour Government and served as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . From taking on and winning against the far right in Barking to campaigning against tax evasion and avoidance , Dame Margaret was always fiercely brave in standing up for what she thought was right , regardless of political party . As I prepared for my maiden speech , I thought about some of the parallels between Margaret ’s family and my own . Margaret ’s family were Jewish , escaping Nazi - occupied Europe , and Margaret herself fled Egypt for the United Kingdom in 1948 in fear of persecution . My grandparents , Osman and Neriman Tango , are of Turkish Cypriot Muslim background . They escaped violence in Cyprus , arriving in London on Christmas eve in 1972 . My mum , Alev , was born in Cyprus in 1967 and was cared for in a United Nations tent . The three of them sought safety in the melting pot that is London ’s east end . They spoke no English , they had no qualifications and no money , but they were safe . As I stand in this Chamber and address hon . Members , I can not help but think of my grandfather , my late grandmother and my mum . I do not think my grandparents could have envisioned that in one generation their granddaughter would be a Member of the mother of all Parliaments . It shows what is possible in this country , and I feel so deeply honoured to be here . I thank my mum , who taught me and my two sisters , Neri and Eda , that we must always try our best , work hard , look after and care for others when they need our help , be grateful for an education , and , when we can , find a way to give back . Those are my values , and I know that they are the values held by families in my constituency . Barking and Dagenham is a special community in London and a place that I have come to know and love . Many of my constituents have a similar story to my family , with heritage from different parts of the world . There are also communities in my constituency that have lived there for generations , deeply proud of their Barking and Dagenham roots — and so they should be . Barking constituency is a place with a rich history , whether it is industrial heritage , including the former Barking power station opened by King George V , or the UK ’s largest council estate built after the first world war as part of the Government ’s “ homes fit for heroes ” scheme . Now Barking is younger and more diverse than the London and national average . That is one of the things that make it such a vibrant place in which to live , but it faces challenges . The unemployment rate in the constituency is worse than in any other London borough , and average earnings are much lower than elsewhere . Shamefully , 23 % of children in Barking are living in poverty . Economic growth is critical for the whole country , and for my constituents . Economic growth is what allows Governments to invest so that we can all benefit from public services — schools , our NHS , frontline services run by local authorities , and a welfare system that values dignity for the individual . Economic growth means additional investment in crucial work delivered by children ’s services , tackling youth crime and violence in our communities . But economic growth does more than just pay for decent public services ; it can deliver people good , well - paid jobs that secure a roof over their heads , food on the table and hope for the future . It is the only route out of poverty , and indeed it is how my grandparents broke away from the cycle of poverty . That is why I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ’s commitment to economic stability and growth outlined in the King ’s speech last week , including plans for a national wealth fund alongside a new deal for working people . I also support the Government ’s commitment to address the housing crisis , especially because it is one of the drivers of poverty . The average house price in Barking has gone up by 21 % over the last five years , and rents have soared . There are thousands of people in temporary accommodation , and a quarter of my constituents live in the under - regulated private rented sector . That is why the Government ’s plan to bring forward a renters rights Bill to end section 21 no - fault evictions is so important for Barking , as is their commitment to speed up planning and infrastructure to get more homes built . The King ’s Speech was an agenda from a Government who are on the side of my constituents . It is a plan that gives hope to people in this country who for too long have felt abandoned . Hope for the future , with deliverable plans to improve lives , is why I entered politics , and , I am sure , why Members on both sides of the House entered politics . It is why I served as a council leader before coming to this place , and why I decided to run to be Member of Parliament for Barking . Politics is perhaps the greatest vehicle for change , and it is why this place matters . Building more homes , giving children a better start in life with free breakfast clubs and more qualified teachers , cutting NHS waiting times , lowering bills with Great British Energy — these things matter , and they will improve the lives of people in my constituency . They are all possible , and only possible , with economic growth . So to the good people of Barking I say : I promise to be on your side . I will represent you faithfully , and I will fight for a better future for Barking so that every person has the opportunity to fulfil their potential — something that is possible only if people feel safe in their communities . I will always champion public services , and I will stand up for investment so that local people benefit . I am honoured to speak in the Chamber , and I will repay that honour by working hard for my constituents as the MP for Barking . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for calling me to speak in this debate . It is an honour to follow the hon . Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) who spoke on a subject on which we can all agree — safeguarding our women and children . There have been many excellent contributions today , and it is an honour to follow each and every one of them . In my short time in this House , it has become abundantly clear to me that the most important person is you , Mr Deputy Speaker , with your desire to keep speeches and contributions short , and that that is the best way for me to curry favour with you . With that in mind , I shall make my maiden speech . I arrived in this country as a toddler from the heart of Africa to the heart of the midlands — Leicester . That city nurtured , schooled and shaped me . It would be fair to say that , no matter where I am in the world , there is a corner of a foreign field that is forever Leicester . The vibrancy , the diversity and , occasionally , the complete rawness of the city were the backdrop of my upbringing . I remember very well as a child those free , small , cold bottles of milk that I used to get at school — I remember very well when it was stolen from me as well . I remember embarking on my life journey with friends from all different creeds , colours , religions and no religion , and we made a life for ourselves in this amazing country . I remember also moments of racism . One that comes to mind was with my late mother . We were in a park and were set upon by a group of people who hurled abuse and foul things , including language and objects , in our direction . But those incidents were superseded by kindness , love and understanding from the great people of this country . As the youngest child by a distance , I was often referred to by my family members as the mistake , but my mother always referred to me as a miracle , and ever since then I began to believe it . My mother , who did not get the opportunity of a formal education in her lifetime , ensured all her children made the most of what this country had to offer . It was this mother who , when I suggested when I grew a bit older that I wanted to study history at university , looked at me as if I was about to become history , so , like a dutiful child , I did optometry at university . And that brings me to here . I have checked the archives , and it appears I am only the second optometrist to have ever become an MP . So , I hope I can bring a little of my professional skills to help the House to focus on what matters and not be myopic in our decision making . With laser - like reflections , I believe we can bring 20/20 vision to matters before us and not make a real spectacle of ourselves . But the serious point is this : with better usage of optometrists , our GP services and our pharmaceutical colleagues , we can ease the burden on secondary care in our hospitals . We all need to work joined up and together . As we are on the topic of health , at this juncture I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Jon Ashworth , a shadow Health Secretary for more than five years before latterly taking on the shadow Paymaster role . He had the honour before me of representing the wonderful Leicester South constituency . In his maiden speech in 2011 , he said it perfectly : “ I am privileged to represent a constituency of huge diversity , vibrancy and tolerance , and while we must never be complacent , our communities generally live harmoniously together . We are part of a city renowned across the world for welcoming incomers . Families have come from across the globe to make their home in Leicester South … Our diversity ” — ethnicity — “ enriches our cultural , social and civic life , and contributes immensely to our economy , too . ”—[Official Report , 8 June 2011 ; Vol . 529 , c. 200 - 201 . ] He represented Leicester South with distinction for 13 years and I hope I can live up to the reputation he earned as a dedicated champion for our city . Talking of champions , Leicester is the city of champions — another miracle . I am from the city that defied all the odds in the 2015 - 16 season when Leicester City became premier league champions , proving again that miracles can happen . I have been a diehard fan ever since I was a child , when one of our favourite sons , Gary Lineker , was still on the bench . We have the Tigers for our rugby force and the Foxes for the cricket , whilst the Riders are usually top of the court in basketball , and in Mark Selby we have a snooker world champion . But on a serious note , we must invest in sports facilities , not only to continue this rich tradition but to give our youth opportunities to improve their physical and mental wellbeing and occupy their time in positive pursuits . Too many of my young constituents told me they have nothing to do , and we must give them that opportunity . Young people also bear the brunt of the housing crisis , and in Leicester we face overcrowding and waiting lists of over six years — worse than some London boroughs . We urgently need more affordable homes . Leicester — another miracle — is where we found the remains of the last Plantagenet king . The bones of Richard III had been lying undisturbed for over 500 years until they were discovered under a car park in 2012 . Please do come and visit him at our beautiful cathedral . We are a friendly bunch , regardless of what you may have read and heard about us . To quote Shakespeare , “ My heart is ten times lighter than my looks . ” My city is a united city . We celebrate all religious festivals — Christmas , Diwali , Vaisakhi , even the Caribbean carnival — with equal vigour , and have lived in harmony for over half a century . However , in recent years fractures have appeared , sown by those who wish to divide us , often by weaponising language . I understand that our isle has finite resources , but we must always have infinite empathy , infinite sympathy and an infinite vocabulary to build bridges , not to destroy them . In the words of the great Muslim Sufi poet Rumi , “ We must raise our words , not our voices . It is rain that brings forth flowers , not thunder . ” During my campaign , I was humbled : I thought I knew my city , but I really did not . Within my city there was an underbelly , a shadow , a city within a city . While I used to speak about people who had a conflict between eating and heating , during my campaign I met them . Food banks at 11 o’clock on a Tuesday morning had over 80 people queuing , and I was told that was one of the quietest days they had ever had . We must tackle the cost of living crisis and reduce the wealth inequality in our country . It is not ethical or sustainable for any civilised nation to go on that way . One poignant incident from my campaigning was when I knocked at a house and a lady peered through a partially opened door . I could not see her whole face , but saw enough to see a life of sadness and tragedy . She explained that she had had a relatively successful life , but something had happened a work — a little bit of bullying — and she went into a depression cycle and never really recovered . She said to me , “ I will vote for you if you can do one of two things . ” What did she ask me ? She said , “ If you could just plant me a tree so I can see it , that would make me smile , and if you could get me a fountain so I can see some water trickling , I ’ll vote for you forever . ” It is important to remember that it is the simplest things that people want and that make the biggest difference to their lives . They want someone to speak up for them in these corridors of power , to speak about the injustices in the world , to give a voice to those who do not have one , who have no might , authority or power — whether that is the forgotten in Yemen , the victims of conflict in Sudan , or the victims of the ongoing devastation in Palestine — regardless of where they are in the world . I will always endeavour to speak truth to power and demand that this new Government take action for the poor and dispossessed , not just the powerful . Finally , if my campaign ever had a catchphrase , it would be the Chinese proverb that says , “ The best time to plant a tree was 25 years ago , in order to enjoy its beauty , its shade and its fruit , but the next best time is today . ” We must plant that seed of unity , equality and justice now to ensure that our future generations can enjoy the fruits of friendship , fairness and peace . I thank the hon . Member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) ; I am sure many of us will find him a very hard act to follow . I congratulate all the hon . Members who have made their opening contributions to this Chamber . I have listened intently and been impressed by their passionate delivery and the personal content they have shared . From the outset of my speech , I would like to thank my family for the encouragement and strength they have given me on my journey to this place . Without their unwavering support , I would not have become a local councillor and then an MP . It is with gratitude , and with enormous pride at being elected as the first ever Member of Parliament for Alloa and Grangemouth , that I take my turn to address the Chamber . I also take this opportunity to highlight my respect for all the candidates who were on the ballot paper . I admire anyone who wants to dedicate themselves to public service , and I pay special tribute to Mr John Nicolson . Those hon . Members who were re - elected to this place a few weeks ago will all know that Mr Nicholson ’s sartorial elegance was matched by his trademark eloquence in this Chamber and in representing the constituents he served with great distinction . With the Forth running through Alloa and Grangemouth , many people on both sides of the river felt it was not a natural constituency , but when we look at the communities and towns that make it up , our new constituency makes perfect sense . Clackmannanshire , being the smallest county in Scotland , is affectionately known as “ the wee county , ” but be under no illusion : although it is small in size , it is mighty in its industrial heritage . Industry is a tradition that stretches right across our constituency . Alva and Tillicoultry were the home of luxury woollen mills . Both run along the foot of the impressive and beautiful local hills , as does Menstrie , the westernmost village of the three , which is synonymous with yeast manufacturing — vital , of course , for one of Scotland ’s national drinks . Indeed , alcohol production has been a fixture in Alloa for decades , and it was once regarded as Scotland ’s brewery town , but sadly nowadays only a few remain . Crossing the Forth , we leave Scotland ’s brewery town behind and come to Grangemouth , which was once known as Scotland ’s boom town . The Grangemouth refinery started operating in 1924 . This being the centenary year means that it should really be a time of great celebration , but it has been announced that refining oil in Grangemouth is to stop — possibly as soon as May 2025 . What happens next to the Grangemouth refinery will reverberate around all our constituencies . Oil will be part of the energy mix for years to come — that is a fact — but we also know that we need to accelerate the cleaner , greener energy industries that will combat climate issues , lower our bills , increase national security and reindustrialise communities . The term “ just transition ” has entered the modern lexicon , but many people I spoke with while out campaigning did not know what it actually means . It simply means moving from one industry to another without leaving workers and their communities behind to deal with devastating economic and social consequences . Historically , many workers in Alloa and Grangemouth have been victims of deindustrialisation and so - called market forces in a system that has valued profits over people and created a society of gross inequality . We are at a crossroads . We know what will happen if Grangemouth stops refining before a new industrial cluster is ready . It would mean that hundreds of workers lose their jobs , workers and families have to leave their communities in search of work , and the pubs , cafés and shops of Grangemouth all lose custom . Allowing a gap between ceasing refining and the new greener energies being operational is as unfair as it is unpalatable . Grangemouth can not go from being boom town to ghost town . In the past few weeks , my Government colleagues have engaged with the union , the companies involved with the refinery and the Scottish Government , and we are committed to exhausting all possibilities of making Grangemouth the site that we all need it to be . My constituency is called Alloa and Grangemouth , but it is also my honour to represent Larbert , Stenhousemuir and many surrounding villages across both the Falkirk and Clackmannanshire council areas . As a football fan , it would be remiss of me not to mention one of Sauchie ’s favourite sons : multiple European cup winner , Scottish internationalist and respected pundit Alan Hansen . I know that the House will join me in expressing relief at his recovery from a recent health scare . It would also be remiss of me not to congratulate Stenhousemuir football club — the Warriors — on their league championship win last season . I am very much looking forward to the Alloa and Grangemouth constituency derby between Alloa Athletic and Stenhousemuir FC in league one next year . On the subject of sport , before coming to this place I was a golf professional . It might not seem it at first , but being a golf professional has transferable skills for being an MP . The building of relationships , the creation of rapport , serving people and trying to improve things for them are skills that will stand me in good stead in this place — also , working in golf for 23 years has got me used to dealing with Tories . Working in golf was fantastic : it took me to places that I would never have been and allowed me to speak with people I would never have met . We truly are richer when we encounter people from other parts of the world and learn about their culture and customs . That applies not just when we go to different places ; it also benefits us here in Britain when we welcome people into our communities . Our communities need action that improves people ’s lives and gives them not just hope but the route out of struggle . Rest assured , I will work with local businesses , charities and third - sector organisations in my constituency , and with UK Government colleagues and counterparts from the Scottish Government , to deliver the change that people need . I know that my voice carries the necessary weight to bring about that change — not because of who I am , but because of the position I hold . The people of Alloa and Grangemouth have given me the responsibility to use my voice , and I intend to do so for the benefit of everyone from every community across the constituency that I am so proud to represent . It is my honour to stand in this Chamber as the Member of Parliament for the beautiful town of Cheltenham , and it is a pleasure to follow the hon . Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . I heartily commend what he said about Alan Hansen , who I watched on television on many occasions as a young football fan . Since last summer , when my wife returned to work after maternity leave , I have been enjoying the unusual combined roles of wannabe Member of Parliament and stay - at - home dad . They tell me it is a job requiring endless patience , a great deal of tolerance , the ability to understand almost inhuman forms of communication and boundless enthusiasm for clearing up a never - ending supply of mess — and I hear a toddler can be tough , too . I want to start by giving thanks to some of the people and groups that have made the past year so joyful for me : Baby Bounce and Rhyme at Cheltenham library , and in particular Heather , who leads the singing ; Andrea and Mary at Highbury church playgroup ; and Sophie at Little Notes . My experiences over the past year have reinforced my views about the challenges I already knew so many parents face , and I have met many new parents in the corridors over the past couple of weeks . I will always speak up in this place for children , including my own offspring — so , Elodie , if you are at home watching me droning on , please tell Granny to put “ The Wiggles ” on instead . I offer my sincere thanks to the former Justice Secretary , Alex Chalk , the first Member of Parliament for Cheltenham to serve in Cabinet . Conservative Members should note his wise words on the prison population : that we should follow the evidence , not the dogma . But such praise for my predecessor is perhaps best communicated through the words of one member of House staff , who upon being introduced to me as Alex ’s replacement , responded with a line that really hit home and will last with me forever : “ Oh , that ’s a shame . He was nice . ” Luckily , I am not easily offended , and I will try to be nice too . I also thank two of my political mentors , Martin Horwood and Nigel Jones . Both are past MPs for Cheltenham who made an indelible impact on me and on our town . My predecessors knew what I know : that Cheltenham is full of big - hearted people whose community spirit and love of hospitality , the arts and culture make it a special place to be . We have so many festivals , including literature , horse racing , poetry , music , jazz , food , cricket and science — I could go on — that we are known as the festival town . We live in a food and drink paradise : we have excellent pubs , bars , cafes and restaurants , as well as the DEYA brewery and Dunkertons cider . We are the home of Holst , of Superdry and of the polar explorer Edward Wilson , but there is more . Local historians record that Cheltenham was the site of the first parachute descent . In 1838 , John Hampton jumped out of a hot air balloon 9,000 feet above the town and glided to earth under an umbrella - like contraption . At this point , my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be getting too excited , so I will leave it there . Cheltenham ’s rich cultural tapestry is interwoven with generously proportioned parks and gardens , and is surrounded by beautiful Regency architecture and rolling hills . It truly is a feast for all the senses , and our schools are first - rate , too . Education is at the heart of our town ’s values — it is on the town crest . I am so proud to have been elected for the town I love at the second attempt . That second - time success follows a trend in my relationship with Cheltenham . First impressions are clearly not my thing , and they could have led to a very different path in my life . In fact , my first job interview in Cheltenham — many years ago , when I had a full head of hair — was so bad that not only was I not offered the job , but when the boss called back weeks later , having apparently been turned down by all the other candidates , the starting salary had suffered a rapid cut of around 10 % . Members will know that that is a spending power reduction that even the former Member for South West Norfolk would struggle to match in her most strident moments . I took the job anyway , of course , because you do not turn down the chance to move to Cheltenham . I am proud to have already kept my first promise as a Member of Parliament . I have joined the Robins Trust , which supports Cheltenham Town FC . They remain a division ahead of Forest Green Rovers , despite being relegated last season — with my apologies to the hon . Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . I have led campaigns already to invest in affordable housing in Cheltenham , to fight climate change and to support food banks , because we have them . It is a disgrace that a town as wealthy as Cheltenham has more than 700 people using food banks regularly . We have a unique scheme in Cheltenham where food bank users also get free access to the leisure centre . I would recommend that all Members try to roll that out in their area . However , if there is one priority I will pursue relentlessly , it will be undoing the harm caused to our local health services these past few years . Alongside the word “ education ” , our town crest also features the world “ health ” . I will defend our local hospital , and I will campaign on primary care , too . One matter of vital importance linking this place and Cheltenham is GCHQ . Their work is secret and they never ask for our thanks , but thousands of people in Cheltenham work hard for us every single day . If I may veer dangerously close to policy for a maiden speech , I was pleased to see that the cyber security and resilience Bill will be coming before Parliament . This is a huge opportunity to update the UK ’s cyber laws by reforming the Computer Misuse Act 1990 , and that will help better defend our cyber - defenders who work so hard for us in Cheltenham . It was with those issues and more in mind that I was accosted at Paddington station the night before my first day here . I was lost in thought , and a tourist approached me and said , “ Excuse me , Sir . How do you get to Westminster ? ” I was of course delighted to be recognised by a member of the public so early in my political career , so I decided to give him the full benefit of my political story . After about 15 minutes , I had been through all my best campaigns , my door - knocking technique , the best leaflets I have ever delivered , and I was just telling him about doing aqua aerobics with our leader , my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton , in our iconic Sandford Park lido . Sadly , I had got it wrong . He interjected , “ Sorry , friend ; I just wanted to know which tube line to take . ” That is a cautionary tale for all new Members : let us not get ahead of ourselves . We are here for our constituency first and foremost , and for me it will be Cheltenham first every time . I congratulate the hon . Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on his excellent maiden speech , and I am pleased to follow him . It is a great honour to be elected to this House to serve the people of Bridgwater . I thank them for putting their trust in me . Bridgwater is a most diverse constituency . It combines the three historic towns of North Petherton , Burnham - on - Sea and Highbridge , and Bridgwater itself . The constituency runs from the coastal villages of Berrow and Brean in the north to the villages of Nether Stowey and Enmore in the foothills of the Quantocks in the west and Middlezoy and Othery on the Somerset levels in the east . The battle of Sedgemoor was fought near Westonzoyland in 1685 . It was the end of Monmouth ’s rebellion and we should all be grateful that it was the last battle fought on English soil . Bridgwater was one of the original boroughs to send elected Members to this House in 1295 , although it is not an unbroken record . In the 1868 general election the two Liberal candidates defeated the two Conservative candidates by just 44 votes . Such was the evidence of bribery and corruption — on both sides , I must add — that the two MPs were unseated and the borough disenfranchised . A royal commission later found that over £ 1,500 , more than £ 200,000 in today ’s money , had been spent on bribes . Mr Deputy Speaker , I can assure you that I have paid particular care to my election expenses . Bridgwater has a radical tradition . One of our most famous sons is Admiral Robert Blake , regarded by many as the father of the Royal Navy . He represented both Bridgwater and Taunton in this House in the 17th century and fought on the side of Parliament in the civil war . Another of my radical predecessors is Vernon Bartlett , who won the seat in the 1938 by - election in what at the time was a remarkable defeat of the Conservative Government . He stood as an independent progressive , endorsed by both the Labour and Liberal parties , opposed to the Munich agreement . In this country , we often credit Winston Churchill for his opposition to the policy of appeasement of Nazi Germany , but it is less remembered that the Labour party under Attlee , Bevin and Dalton was the strongest opponent of that disastrous policy . I am sure that all Members , but especially Labour Members , will be mindful of their party ’s proud history of opposing appeasement as this Government decide how to support Ukraine and how best to deter future Russian aggression in Europe . I pay tribute to my predecessors from the two former constituencies that make up the new seat of Bridgwater . James Heappey is the former Member for Wells . He stood down at the last election , and he is well liked and respected in Burnham and Highbridge . He served with distinction at the Ministry of Defence . He was also a kind and helpful colleague when I was selected as a candidate , and I thank him for his service . Ian Liddell - Grainger represented Bridgwater and West Somerset for 23 years and is remembered for the support he gave our rural communities following the terrible flooding in Somerset during the winter of 2013 - 14 . Ian visited the affected areas every week and persuaded David Cameron to visit Somerset to witness the devastation for himself . It has not been forgotten that the former Prime Minister turned up without wellington boots . Ian led the campaign for a barrage over the River Parrett , which is now in the early stages of construction . I will continue his work to ensure we dredge our rivers and maintain our defences , so that we minimise the threat of flooding . I also want to mention Tom King , now Lord King , who represented Bridgwater for 31 years , until 2001 . It is a mark of the respect and affection in which he is held that his name was mentioned so many times on the doorstep during my campaign . Tom also wrote a helpful endorsement saying why people should vote for me , which only goes to show how wise he is . Bridgwater is an industrial town . It has many small businesses , and I will do all I can to support them . We need to encourage entrepreneurial spirit , because that is how we create prosperity for all our citizens . We welcome thousands of tourists every year to enjoy our beautiful Somerset coastline . I want to encourage those tourists to spend longer in Somerset , to visit more of our beautiful countryside and to consume more of the excellent produce from our farmers and growers . Bridgwater is also the home of the Guy Fawkes carnival , the UK ’s oldest carnival , and one of the largest illuminated carnival processions in Europe . Hundreds of volunteers work tirelessly to create this fantastic spectacle and to raise thousands of pounds for charity . Much has been achieved for Bridgwater and for Somerset over the past 14 years . Hinkley Point C is being constructed and will provide secure and low - carbon energy to the whole region for generations . The electricity it produces will power Gravity , the smart campus where Agratas will build one of Europe ’s largest gigafactories . These two projects will provide jobs and opportunities for years to come . The town of Bridgwater was awarded £ 23 million under the previous Government ’s town deal initiative . That will fund many important local projects , including restoring our historic docks and refurbishing the arts centre and the town hall theatre , but there is more to do . I will work with our new police and crime commissioner to tackle the antisocial behaviour that affects our towns . I will campaign to protect Pawlett Hams and stop it being turned into an unwanted salt marsh by the Environment Agency . I will keep the promise I made during the campaign to Aaron Reid , the headteacher of Haygrove school It is one of the top - performing schools in Somerset , but also one of three schools in England built by Caledonian Modular and now condemned as unsafe . The last Government promised to rebuild Haygrove , and I trust that the new Government will honour that promise . I will support the school as we work with the council and the new Government to find a solution that benefits the pupils and staff of Haygrove . I am proud to have been elected by the people of Bridgwater . I will serve them faithfully and to the best of my ability . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allowing me the opportunity to give my maiden speech . It is a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speeches in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) on his powerful and witty speech . I must also congratulate in particular my hon . Friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his excellent speech , too . As a former professional golfer , it is fitting that he won his seat on such a huge swing , and his brilliant speech showed us why . The bar has been set intimidatingly high in this debate . I feel all the more honoured to be elected by the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife to be their representative in the House and follow in the footsteps of predecessors who served the constituency with such distinction . I pay tribute to the outgoing MP , Peter Grant , who served with such commitment and so diligently on behalf of his constituents . He will rightly be proud in particular of his contribution to the successful campaign for the reintroduction of the Levenmouth rail link both as Fife council leader and as an MP , for his service on the Public Accounts Committee and for campaigning for the rights of victims of financial scandals through his role on the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fairer financial services . I also pay tribute to Peter ’s predecessor , Lindsay Roy , who was such a brilliant MP for the constituency . Today , Lindsay is a tireless advocate for Parkinson ’s UK , making the case with passion and eloquence for improved support for people with Parkinson ’s and for investment in medical research . His example should not only give hope to people with Parkinson ’s ; he is an inspiration to us all . I am a new Member in this Parliament , but I was privileged to serve in the Scottish Parliament for 12 years . I have already observed some of the differences between Holyrood and here . This institution is older and often more complex — as indeed are many of its Members — and there are many procedures and protocols to learn , but while there are differences between the Parliaments , the purpose we have is a common one : to serve our constituents . We have heard over the past weeks how it is vital to have strong relationships between the UK Government and the devolved Administrations . That is of course true . However , I believe that there are still too few opportunities for Members of each of our UK Parliaments to work together on many matters of shared responsibility and interest . I hope that there can be greater collaboration between all our parliamentarians in the course of the next five years . On a personal note , may I say that I am proud that my wife Claire Baker continues to serve the people of Mid Scotland and Fife in the Scottish Parliament with such skill and dedication ? I was delighted that Claire and our daughter Catherine could be in the Gallery when I was sworn in . I have also been greatly privileged to work for disability charities in my time away from elected politics . For the past two years , I have worked with the charity Enable in a role supporting people with learning disabilities on campaigns for their rights , not to speak on their behalf but to support them to be their own advocates for change as experts by experience . In the media , in public forums and in Parliaments , Enable member ambassadors have told their own stories and powerfully argued the case for a more equal society . The need to tackle these inequalities is clear when people with learning disabilities have a life expectancy of 20 years less than the rest of the population , only about 7 % are in paid employment , they have fewer opportunities in education and they are twice as likely to experience bullying . I will miss working with them , but I will not miss the opportunity in this Parliament to make our country a fairer and a more equal place for disabled people . I will also not miss the opportunity to be a champion in the Chamber for the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife . The constituency stretches across Fife , from Methil , Buckhaven and the Wemyss villages on the coast to ancient Markinch and the new town of Glenrothes , and from Kinglassie and Cardenden and the villages of Benarty to Lochgelly and Kelty . Those and other communities in the constituency have their own histories and priorities , but so many are linked by their proud connections to the mining industry . That is why the decision by this Government to end the injustice of the miners ’ pension scheme , so that funds in the scheme are kept for its beneficiaries , will be so important for so many of my constituents . The communities of my constituency can look back on a proud industrial heritage , but it is vital that they can also look forward to their future as a hub for innovation , technology and our growing renewable sector . The biomass plant at Markinch , the hydrogen for domestic energy pilot at Buckhaven , and the Fife energy park at Methil are all examples of how our constituency can benefit from the exciting plans for GB Energy and our goal for Scotland to play a leading role in making Britain a green energy powerhouse . We have to seize this opportunity . Buckhaven and Methil have the highest number of deprived communities in Fife , which is why we have to realise the ambition for the area and increase employment through expansion in renewables . It is vital that UK Ministers work collaboratively with management , unions , the Scottish Government and Fife council to ensure that despite the financial difficulties of Harland & Wolff , which operates the fabrication yard at Methil , the 200 skilled jobs and apprenticeships at the yard are secured , along with its infrastructure and facilities . That skilled workforce and the facilities at the yard will be instrumental in realising Fife ’s ambition to be a thriving hub for the renewables sector in Scotland . It means so much to me to be given the chance to be a champion for our part of Scotland . My mother was a teacher at Beath High , the school attended by one of our most celebrated novelists Sir Ian Rankin , who grew up in Cardenden in the constituency . In Sir Ian ’s book “ Set in Darkness ” , Inspector Rebas carries out criminal investigations at the Scottish Parliament . We can only wonder where he finds inspiration for the plots of his novels , but I am sure we can all agree that Fife can be proud to call one of our finest writers one of our own . I also know how resilient our communities can be , and how we can look to better days even after the toughest of times . When I was growing up in Fife , my father was a vicar in Lochgelly during the miners ’ strike . My father - in - law Jim was a proud member of the National Union of Mineworkers . When I stood for election to this place in 2015 , he gave me a miner ’s lamp to bring with me to Westminster if I won , to remind me what I was here to do . I was not elected in 2015 , and after that election nearly 10 years ago , many would have thought that the flame of the Labour and trade union movement was fragile and flickering , but today in this Parliament it burns brighter than ever . Ten years later , the lamp will be with me here in Westminster , and it will remind me why I am here : to deliver the change that our country needs and to show that , through political action , we can deliver the stronger , fairer society that so many people in my constituency gave so much to achieve . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to make my maiden speech during this important debate on the King ’s Speech , which set out the agenda of change that the country voted for and which this Labour Government will deliver . I congratulate all new Members who have made maiden speeches today . It is the honour of my life to represent my home of Hastings and Rye . I know that you are very familiar , Madam Deputy Speaker , with all that we in Hastings and Rye have to offer visitors — especially our famous fish and chips . In recent years , our fisherman have worked hard to keep our local fishing industry going in the most difficult of circumstances , and they will always have my full support . Hastings and Rye hosts the world crazy golf championship every year , and we also hold the world record for the biggest gathering of pirates in any one place — a record that we try to beat every year on pirate day . Although one of my predecessors in representing Rye was himself a real pirate , I am relieved to say that that can not be said for many of them . Sally - Ann Hart worked extremely hard for our constituency , and I thank her in particular for her work in support of women and children fleeing domestic abuse — a legacy that I hope to build on . Another thing that we wholeheartedly agree on is speaking out about the unacceptable levels of abuse and intimidation that too many Members of this House have faced , particularly women . The plaque of the late Jo Cox is facing us , and that of Sir David Amess is behind me . They are a constant and tragic reminder of where that can end . I also pay tribute to my Labour predecessor , Michael Foster . He is well known in our area for helping so many residents and for having been a passionate champion for Hastings and Rye during his time in this House . Many Members will know our area for a very famous battle that took place in 1066 . Historians may still be arguing about where exactly it took place , but it is safe to say that it has cemented our place in the history books . Since then , we have continued to play our part in British history — from being immortalised in the novel “ The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists ” to being the birthplace of television . Perhaps what defines us most , though , is our community spirit , underpinned by our volunteers and charities , who do so much . Our calendar is full of carnivals and festivals , from Jack in the Green to bonfire nights . Those events are made possible only by volunteers who give up their time to give back to the community and raise money for our local charities . Volunteers also maintain and protect so many of our amazing public spaces , from Hastings country park to Rye harbour nature reserve and Camber Sands . There are also some points of our history that we would rather forget , such as the unveiling of a certain stone tablet in Hastings during the 2015 general election campaign by my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . That stone may have been consigned to history , but I know that my right hon . Friend will be back very soon to unveil some new green energy infrastructure , and that it will be longer - lasting than the stone . Although we have often found ourselves at the centre of historical events , we have not always felt all of the benefits . Our road and rail infrastructure is stuck in the past : we may be a similar distance from London as Brighton is , but our train line takes twice as long . We lie at the end of the A21 , a road that has been described as the least developed in the south - east of England . As any driver will tell you , we have the worst potholes in the country , and our water infrastructure is also failing us : Southern Water has a lot to answer for in my constituency , dumping record levels of sewage along our coastline from St Leonards through Hastings to Fairlight , Pett , Camber Sands and Winchelsea beach . Some sewage has even come into people ’s homes and gardens in my constituency , and when the water pipes have failed , we have faced major flooding in homes and the town centre and been left without a water supply for days on end . I am pleased to see that the water special measures Bill , which will start to clean up our water industry , is part of this King ’s Speech . The cratered state of our roads and crumbling water infrastructure is symbolic of how we have too often been forgotten by Westminster . Life expectancy is lower than the national average , a trend that has got worse over the past 14 years . People wait longer for an ambulance in my constituency than anywhere else in the south - east of England , and the situation is particularly bad in our villages and rural areas such as Winchelsea , where people wait 45 minutes on average when having a stroke or heart attack . That is why this Government ’s plans to cut NHS waiting times can not come soon enough . As a seaside destination , our area has benefited hugely from tourism , but we are also at the sharp end of the housing crisis , with spiralling rents and simply not enough homes being built . Too many of my constituents are left in poor - quality rental accommodation , whether by Southern Housing or private landlords . That is why I so welcome the measures in this King ’s Speech to get Britain building again , building more homes and giving all renters more protections . This Government have a mission to break down the barriers to opportunity . That is sorely needed in my constituency , where almost 40 % of children are growing up in poverty and over half our young people are leaving school without the essential qualification of a grade 4 in English and maths . How we treat our children says a lot about us as a society ; before joining this House , I had the privilege of seeing that up close in many different countries as an aid worker with Save the Children . It is always children who suffer the most in war and conflict . I have sat with young mums in Yemen holding their starving babies , so hungry that they do not have the energy to cry , and have heard harrowing stories from Rohingya women who have fled ethnic cleansing and sexual violence at the hands of the Myanmar military . I always promised those women that I would share their stories with the world , and my time in this place will be no different . We are at a time in history when more children are growing up in conflict than ever before . Rightly , much focus has been devoted recently to the appalling events in Israel and Palestine — there , too , it is children bearing the brunt of war . We must redouble our efforts to bring about peaceful solutions to all these conflicts , and must remember that all the global issues we face , from climate change to migration , can only be solved by working across borders with our international allies and through strong , multilateral institutions such as the United Nations . Just as I have been so inspired by the women I have met living in some of the toughest places on Earth , I also wanted to acknowledge some of the women whose shoulders I stand on closer to home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know I speak for many Labour Members when I say how much we miss your sister , the late , great Baroness Margaret McDonagh . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] She always had such wise counsel to offer us , and that is the reason why many of us sit on these Benches today . I also thank my family and friends for all the support they have given me in getting me to this place . This King ’s Speech will begin to deliver the change and renewal that Hastings and Rye voted for . I look forward to working hard for all my constituents across Hastings and Rye and delivering that much - needed change .