That is one reason the high - needs budget is up by over 60 % in the past four years , and will reach £ 10.5 billion in 2024 - 25 . We are also supporting local authorities with financial deficits through the safety valve and delivering better- value programmes . In most constituencies , including in the hon . Lady ’s area , the funding has gone up by 25 % to 35 % . We are implementing a gold thread of high - quality teacher training reforms to ensure that teachers have the skills they need . The Department has been exploring opportunities to build expertise , through a review of the initial teacher training core content framework and the early career framework , to identify how we can equip new teachers to be more confident in meeting the needs of children and young people with SEND . There will be more investment in educational psychologists , of which there will be another 400 , and more investment in early years SENCOs , of which there will be another 7,000 . I thank my hon . Friend for his question , and also for all the work he has done in this area . We worked together when he was Minister for children and families and I was working in the Department of Health and Social Care , and it is something that we both care deeply about . As I said in answer to the earlier question , there is a golden thread of high - quality teacher training reforms . We will be looking at a revised framework and working with providers so that they can ensure that the contracts deliver the very best support for teachers . What will be vital , and something that Members will feel , is the additional 7,000 SENCOs that will be trained in the coming years . Absolutely . Obviously , one reason for the reduction in some of the SME numbers is the fact that we made improvements to ensure that every single apprenticeship was of high quality . I want to make sure that all young people who embark on an apprenticeship , as I did , put their trust in the system and get what they deserve . We have removed the limit on caps on SMEs , and we are working on reducing the number of steps to make it easier for them to access the system . We are also looking at what more we can do : we are focusing on a number of ways in which to ensure that apprenticeships work well for SMEs , which account for 70 % of employment .