I am delighted to be called to give my maiden speech , and I do so with a sense of trepidation and excitement , which I imagine that many a new MP feels . It has struck me that maiden speeches are a little like buses : you wait ages , and then 335 of them turn up at once . I beg your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , to listen to one more as we near the end of this journey . As hon . Members will know , the excellent House of Commons Library helpfully provides us with the maiden speeches of our last two predecessors , to give us a feel for this place and to acknowledge the work of those who came before us . Mr Selous served for a whopping 23 years , and I pay tribute to his work as an assiduous constituency representative who stood up for what he believed in . I discovered in his maiden speech that he in turn referred to his predecessor who served for 31 years , who in turn harked back to the Member who came before him — the last Labour MP for the area — who was elected back in 1966 . Clearly , 1966 was a year that was rather good for teams in red , albeit followed by rather too many years of hurt . History shows us how rarely change comes for these communities , yet change is desperately needed : on shop- lifting , I have met workers who have been spat at , threatened with needles and even a gun ; the lack of healthcare facilities , including in Houghton Regis and Leighton - Linslade ; sewage polluting our waterways ; and transport . I am delighted to be a member of the Transport Committee , and transport is the subject of the debate , which I congratulate the hon . Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on securing . My constituency has a long history of transport innovation . It has Britain ’s oldest road , dating back to prehistoric times , the Icknield way , which runs through the constituency . It has the Grand Union canal , the freight superhighway of its day . Leighton Buzzard railway once transported sand from quarries and is now a much - loved tourism attraction , going full steam ahead . More recently , we have one of the longest guided busways in Europe , which I hope one day can be extended . That brings me neatly to the topic of buses and encouraging more people to switch on to them , which is so vital in this time of climate emergency . I welcome the BSIP investment announced recently by the Government , and I look forward to hearing more from the Minister about plans to allow more local areas to have a smoother path to franchising . I am keen for the Minister to look carefully at transport governance . London and Greater Manchester , which have franchising already , have also historically had alignment of transport powers , resources and capacity all in one centralised place . Passenger transport executives and their equivalents can accelerate the delivery of transport plans and play a crucial role in unlocking regional economic growth . For 50 years , such structures have benefited from much higher levels of control and co - ordination of buses . They also benefit from running over a much more logical functional economic geography . Outside such areas , transport powers are held in many different places , and they require a number of organisations to independently agree reforms to enact change . That can mean , for example , that bus stops , which are surely the window to the soul of buses , can be owned by an organisation with no say in how the bus service itself is run . In many places in the country , highways and transport powers are split . We perhaps need more passenger transport executives , although the Urban Transport Group advises that the last passenger transport executive was established so long ago — not quite so long ago as when a Labour MP last represented Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard — that the mechanics around establishing a new one are unclear . In any case , we need governance that is fit for the 21st century , with the right delegated functions being granted to a passenger transport executive or equivalent , and the establishment of an executive function to speed up decision making and delivery that makes the difference . It needs to be based on a geography that reflects travel patterns as well as wider social and economic geographies , and which gives a large enough base to raise farebox income . On geography , I argue that there need to be possibilities to franchise in areas larger than local transport authorities . Given that franchising is not entirely a silver bullet , I urge the Minister to look at the geography of enhanced partnerships as well . It is only one bus , but the F70 , which travels from Luton to Milton Keynes via Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard , goes through three separate enhanced partnership areas . Finally , I thank Grant Palmer , Arriva and First , which have invited me aboard their buses recently , and Dawsongroup for bringing a double - decker bus just outside Parliament for Catch the Bus Month , which many hon . Members from across the House came to support . It is my belief , really , that every month should be Catch the Bus Month . I urge all hon . Members to get on board and back our local buses all year round .