It is clear that we are today debating methodologies , rather than values . Certainly , I do not dispute the Minister ’s values at all ; we all want to see the growing need met , and the environment protected . The question that we are debating today is the best methodologies for achieving those outcomes . I have submitted a number of amendments covering three areas , which I will rattle through as quickly as I can , all of which support the themes that my hon . Friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) advanced today , and indeed that he has pursued in Committee in previous weeks . Amendment 148 relates to housing targets . It proposes allowing local authorities to adopt targets that reduce housing need , rather than simply targets to build homes . House building targets are in many areas part of the problem , rather than the solution to housing need . For example , since the 1960s , Cornwall ’s housing stock has been among the fastest growing in the United Kingdom . It has almost trebled , yet housing problems for local people have got significantly worse over that time . Simply setting house building targets results in massive hope value being attached to every single community around Cornwall . Having worked as a chief executive of a charity that tries to build affordable homes , I can say that establishing house building targets makes it more difficult to address the housing needs of local people . Targets that are about reducing need would change the dynamics of the planning system in places that face these problems . Unfortunately , the approach to house building targets that has been adopted by parties over the previous decade is built on the delusion that private developers will collude with Governments to drive down the price of their finished product . We can no longer carry on in that delusion . We can not and should not pursue counterproductive methodologies . Amendment 149 and new clause 108 are consequential on the fundamental change proposed in amendment 148 . My hon . Friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington has spoken about introducing a new class order to address the prevalence of non - permanent occupancy in some areas . The previous Government were looking at bringing in a new class order for holiday lets , but that should be extended to second homes and all homes of non - permanent occupancy . New clause 92 , which is consequential on new clause 91 , proposes introducing a sunset clause for planning permission to ensure that there is not a perverse incentive for people to apply to change a property ’s use in order to enhance the value of their property when they sell it . This is not about the politics of envy but the politics of social justice . I think those who represent areas or constituencies with large numbers of second homes properly understand how these things operate . Finally , I tabled a number of amendments relating to affordability , including new clause 89 on affordable development and new clause 90 . New clause 89 would prohibit cross - subsidy — or at least open - market development — on rural exception sites . Those sites should not be called rural exception sites ; they should be called rural norm sites . That should be the methodology for delivering affordable homes in rural areas . It should be driven by wanting to have affordable homes in such locations . I am pleased to support this important Bill and the Government amendments to it , which will deliver the housing , infrastructure and environmental protections that my constituents need . First , I welcome the Government ’s enhancements to the environmental delivery plan . They provide greater clarity , legal safeguards and appropriate flexibility to ensure that the plan restores and enhances our precious natural habitats . The current piecemeal approach to offsetting environmental harm is not working . The Government ’s sensible approach maintains existing protections for nature , and adds to them with the ability to fund high - impact strategic nature recovery projects . I am very lucky that there are several significant nature recovery projects in my constituency , such as Sulham woods and meadows , which I had the pleasure of visiting last week . This project is maximising biodiversity on 130 hectares of marginal arable land , and is planting 24,000 trees , 4 km of new hedgerow and a new walnut orchard . We need more big projects like this . I would like to highlight the opportunity the Bill presents for our country ’s chalk streams . I am proud to represent a constituency that boasts many wonderful waterways , including the entire length of the River Pang — a beautiful , winding chalk stream that is a point of local pride . It is said to be the inspiration for the “ Wind in the Willows ” , and it is loved by families , dog walkers and anglers alike . But the precious Pang is in crisis . In just a few short years , the water quality has plummeted to poor . Citizen scientists and anglers testing the river , such as Professor Mike Wilson and Pete Devery , consistently report samples with completely unacceptable levels of phosphate and E. coli . The phosphate pollution from Thames Water sewage works is so bad that luminous green from the resultant algae can be seen in satellite images . I thank all the campaigners , citizen scientists and volunteers with whom I have been working throughout my campaign to restore the Pang . I also thank the ARC project , the Rivers Trust , the Angling Trust , Pang Valley Flood Forum and Berks , Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust , as well as all members of the Pang Flagship Chalk Stream Partnership , which supports a range of initiatives to restore the Pang . They are all dedicated advocates whose restoration efforts are making a real difference . Chalk streams are rare and valuable habitats . Their mineral - rich , stable waters are home to a plethora of species .