I welcome many of the measures in the Bill , particularly those concerning knife crime and the protection of shop workers who all too often bear the brunt of antisocial behaviour . However , one of the biggest deterrents for criminals is the certainty of being caught , and reductions in police numbers nationally are as wrong as they are locally . In Avon and Somerset , the former Conservative police and crime commissioner cut PCSOs by a further 80 last year — a massive 28 % reduction — and closed our Taunton police station . I welcome clause 4 ’s provisions on public space protection orders , which I will come on to . I welcome the commitment to deliver 13,000 extra officers of various kinds , but worrying for me is the fact that my constituents have come to see me about their relatives who are serving police officers . Civilians have been replaced by officers in uniform doing the same civilian jobs , just so that it can be claimed that police numbers have increased . I hope the Minister will make sure that that does not continue to occur with the new recruitment , which is very welcome . Unless officers are seen in our communities and on the streets , they will not deter or catch the criminals we need them to catch . Last autumn , I was contacted by businesses in Castle Green in Taunton , which are at their wit ’s end because of the antisocial behaviour in the historic centre of our county town . I contacted the chief constable straightaway . I am really grateful to Avon and Somerset officers for the efforts they have put in , as I am to the chamber of commerce in Taunton , which has raised the general issue of town centre crime and convened the safe streets forum that I attended last week , but it is clear that we need to deter antisocial behaviour and crime where it is taking place . That is proven by the fact that Lib Dem - run Taunton town council has just appointed a street marshal , who is on duty in our town centre . I spent the afternoon with Nick last Friday . He is doing an excellent job and covering a huge range of work , from people climbing all over the rooftops to retrieving thousands of pounds ’ worth of stock by simply asking the person responsible to hand it over . He must have been quite persuasive in asking the individual to do that . I congratulate Nick , our street marshal , but when I returned to Castle Green with him , it was clear that the antisocial behaviour problems there have become intractable . I therefore suggest that we need to work with Somerset council to get a public space protection order , and I hope the Government will support its enforcement . Too many of our great community events are marred by the antisocial few , and we need to tackle that . We need the public space of Castle Green , with its superb independent market , our famous Castle Hotel , the scheduled ancient monument , which is the castle itself , and the Museum of Somerset where soon people will be able to see the Chew valley hoard of silver coins from the Norman conquest . I can not use those coins to pay for the enforcement of the public space protection order , but I hope it will have Government support so that we can ensure that key public spaces are not subject to conquest by those who would disobey the law , wreak havoc among local people , damage livelihoods and tarnish the generally superb reputation of our county town .