I thank the hon . Lady for giving me the chance to update the House on this important matter , further to the written ministerial statement that we will publish later today . The UK Health Security Agency announced last week that it has declared a national standard incident in response to an increase in confirmed cases of measles . In order for our measles , mumps and rubella vaccine to work , the World Health Organisation recommends at least 95 % coverage to maintain population coverage . At the moment , our MMR reach is 89.3 % for the first dose at 24 months , and 84.5 % for the second dose at five years . This is not a new issue . There has been a gradual decline in coverage over 10 years because of a number of factors , ranging from the Wakefield generation , when Dr Andrew Wakefield published his discredited paper on the risks of MMR , through to covid , when routine vaccinations were missed , and there has been a drop since then . There have also been concerns in particular communities , such as the Jewish and Muslim communities , about the type of vaccine used . We have not been waiting : the NHS has carried out a catch - up effort over the past 12 months , proactively contacting parents and carers of unvaccinated children aged five and younger , and we have seen a 10 % increase in vaccination compared to the previous year . However , that is not enough . NHS figures show that almost 3.5 million children under the age of 16 are unprotected and at risk of catching this serious and preventable disease . Measles is so infectious that one infected child in a classroom can infect up to nine other unvaccinated children , making it one of the most infectious diseases worldwide . While for most it will be a mild illness , one in five children with measles will need to be admitted to hospital for treatment , putting additional pressure on the NHS . I want to stress that this is not just a childhood disease ; for adults who have not been vaccinated it can be a serious and potentially life - changing event . My message to mums and dads with children who are currently unvaccinated is to come forward . We have a range of measures in place . One million letters are going out to the parents of unvaccinated children across London and the midlands . We have extra clinics being set up by GPs , pop - up clinics in schools and vaccine buses targeting communities with low vaccination rates . We have held two MP briefing sessions , on 12 and 19 January : one for the west midlands and one for London . Today we have sent out information to MPs so that they can help us get the message out to their constituents to come forward . It is not too late . There is no age limit . Anybody who has not had their vaccination can come forward . The first vaccine will provide roughly 92 % protection , and the second will provide 98 % . The message is to come forward and get vaccinated .