I am really grateful that the right hon . Gentleman has raised that point , and it is good that it is a point of agreement across the whole House . There was a time when large numbers of people in this House would have thought that having gay men , lesbians or trans people in the armed forces was anathema , and I am so glad that we have changed . The shields on the wall up there are dedicated to Members of Parliament who were killed in the second world war , and at least five , if not six , of them were gay men who gave their lives in defence of this country . Bravery is available to people regardless of their sexuality or their identity . The right hon . Gentleman is also absolutely right to refer to Terence . His report was an essential part of changing the landscape in this country and making sure that compensation was available to the individuals who were affected . We should acknowledge the fundamental truth that trans people have always been at the forefront of our movement . From Marsha P. Johnson in New York to Mark Ashton here in the UK , trans people and gender non - conforming people have led protests , shaped policy and built community , often with little recognition or safety in return . At Stonewall , at section 28 protests , in the founding of support services and HIV charities , and at the heart of every movement that pushed us forward , trans people were there and they led . We owe them a debt of gratitude , so to treat them now as a threat to the very movement they helped build is wrong . We will not forget their role , and we will not leave them behind . Trans people deserve safety , dignity and the same freedom to live their lives as anyone else , and under this Government they will have it . On 29 August 1924 , Edward Carpenter had his 80th birthday . He had famously campaigned for our rights and lived with his lover , George Merrill . Indeed , he was probably the model for E. M. Forster ’s novel “ Maurice ” , which I think was published only after E. M. Forster ’s death . Carpenter was a brave campaigner at a time when it was impossible to be brave . Men were still being imprisoned with hard labour for homosexuality in 1924 , when he came to his 80th birthday , so it was a phenomenal act of bravery when every single member of the Labour Cabinet — there was a Labour Government in 1924 — signed a letter to Carpenter wishing him a happy birthday . That kind of magnanimity should be the hallmark of our politics today . We are not yet the country that we could be , but in all we do in our hospitals and our schools , in our laws and our language , in our foreign policy and our public services , this Government will uphold one principle : a little respect for all . Let that be the legacy of this House .