That was just the intervention that I needed . There have also been the cases of Jodey Whiting , David Wood and many , many others . Our report recognises the significance of every death and harm experienced by claimants , and the impact of these cases on their loved ones . We know that 40 deaths and 13 serious harms of claimants were investigated by the Department in 2023 - 24 alone as part of its internal process reviews , but in common with the National Audit Office ’s 2020 report , we believe that the actual numbers are much higher . We heard evidence that the process of accessing DWP support , and some DWP policies themselves , can create or exacerbate existing vulnerabilities . For example , sanctions or the threat of sanctions can lead to material deprivation , stress , and the deterioration of physical and mental health . In some cases , the experience of engaging with the system and the processes has been so difficult and distressing that it has contributed to claimants deciding to take their own life . Some of the most serious cases of harm — where a coroner ’s inquest has found that DWP contributed to a claimant ’s death — have resulted in prevention of future death reports . Since 2010 , DWP has been issued with 10 prevention of future death reports relating specifically to the deaths of benefit claimants . The fact that the Equality and Human Rights Commission issued a section 23 notice on the DWP for potential discrimination against disabled people in 2022 , and the investigation that was subsequently launched last year after the failure to reach an agreement , added to the evidence that the Work and Pensions Committee collected on the DWP ’s inadequate approach to safeguarding . The inquiry set out to examine the support that the Department provided to vulnerable claimants , how it had learned from mistakes and failures , and what needed to change . The new Committee agreed to reopen the inquiry on 30 October 2024 . Before I turn to the findings and recommendations of the report , I should acknowledge that in the “ Pathways to Work ” Green Paper , published in March , the Government said they were consulting “ on a new DWP safeguarding approach to make it clear what the department and its staff are expected to do in order to safeguard the public . ” I welcome that , and I was heartened by the Secretary of State ’s evidence to the Committee last November . Our principal recommendation is for a statutory safeguarding duty to be placed on the DWP to protect claimants . Although the Secretary of State would be accountable for this duty , reflecting the leadership needed to drive these changes , it would make safeguarding in the DWP everyone ’s business : at all levels of the organisation and at all stages of policy development and implementation . The duty would include the proactive consideration of the safeguarding needs of claimants , the ability to refer vulnerable individuals to other agencies with a duty of care , and , again , the proactive consideration of the impacts of key policies and legislation on the health and wellbeing of claimants before they are implemented . The need for a new legal obligation is clear . The current approach to safeguarding in DWP has been described as “ piecemeal and lacking coherence ” , and the Committee agrees . For that reason , the report calls for a comprehensive , systems - based approach to safeguarding that integrates into every stage of policy development , implementation and review . The approach must involve everyone in the DWP to ensure that safeguarding becomes a fundamental part of the Department ’s culture . We see a new statutory duty as the cornerstone of a bigger cultural shift that is needed in the DWP . For too long , the focus has been on cost cutting , often at the expense of providing genuine support . That approach has led to a system in which claimants feel undeserving of support and fearful of the very Department that is meant to assist them . The necessary cultural shift must be driven from the top down , with Ministers and senior officials leading the way . A statutory safeguarding duty would help to focus minds , improve accountability and ensure that safeguarding becomes everybody ’s business in the DWP . The need for deep - rooted cultural change in the Department can not be overstated . The process of engaging with the DWP often leads to mental distress for claimants . This distress is compounded by a lack of trust in the system , driven by continual cost - cutting measures and an unhelpful media narrative . To rebuild trust , the DWP must prioritise safeguarding and support over cost cutting , and this means creating a system that not only helps people to find sustainable work , but compassionately supports those who may never work . The report also emphasises the importance of learning from past mistakes . The Department has conducted a number of IPRs , but the full scale of harm is much higher . The ongoing investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission into the Department ’s treatment of disabled people and those with long - term mental health conditions underscores the need for transparency and accountability . In addition to the statutory duty , the report makes a number of other important recommendations , which I will go through quickly . As I have mentioned , it is recommended that all significant new policies are analysed by the Department ’s chief medical adviser ’s team . Currently , such assessments are not routinely carried out , leading to policies that may inadvertently harm claimants or exacerbate existing vulnerabilities . By making these assessments a standard part of policy development , we hope to ensure that the impacts of policies on the health and wellbeing of claimants are considered and harms mitigated . The report stresses the importance of having a robust , clear and accessible complaints procedure to prevent failures recurring . As I have stated , the true scale of deaths and harms is not known . The report calls for systematic recording and publication of all cases of serious harms and deaths involving claimants . The Department should commit to publishing this information annually to aid transparency . The report also recommends improving transparency in the processes used to learn from serious mistakes and failures , and the introduction of an independent body — the Department should not mark its own homework — to investigate serious harms . On defining and identifying vulnerability , the Department ’s current approach is seen as flexible , lacking in clarity and consistency . The report calls for a formalised definition of vulnerability that is clearly communicated in public - facing documents . It also recommends adding victims of abuse to the additional support area in universal credit , and implementing proactive measures to identify and support vulnerable claimants . Ensuring that vulnerable people can access the benefits they are entitled to is crucial for delivering equitable welfare provision . The removal of the Help to Claim face - to - face service has made it more difficult for some individuals to apply for universal credit . The report recommends that the DWP ensures that jobcentres provide thorough support , and that detailed information about additional support is proactively offered to claimants . In that regard I do give praise , because there are so many good people in the Department , such as the advanced customer support senior leaders , who are integral to helping frontline DWP staff . I praise those staff , and we need more of them . Effective communication and making sure that people are aware of what support they can access is also important , and we need more of it . That also applies to training and capacity building for frontline staff , which needs to happen to achieve the cultural changes we need . Finally , collaboration with other agencies needs to be a statutory responsibility , and there needs to be DWP membership of the safeguarding adults boards . I am very grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker .