As the Member of Parliament for the home of the British Army , it is my honour to speak in this debate on remembrance and veterans . I will use my time to share a story from a veteran of the Royal Marines , who celebrates their birthday today . My constituent has given me permission to share his story in the debate , although I have changed his name to protect his privacy . John served our country with honour . He was discharged from the Royal Marines after three years of service , but life outside the military was hard . His mental health spiralled . He ended up homeless , sleeping rough on the streets , so he went to the local authority for help . This is the part of his story that shocked me , because John was told that before the local authority could help him , it had first to confirm that he really was homeless . Rather than taking John at his word , he was told that he would have to continue to sleep rough in a named location for two weeks and wait for an outreach worker to visit him to verify that he was homeless . John did as he was ordered , following what he had been taught by his service , but he found staying in the same place meant he was targeted with verbal and physical abuse , so he moved and kept moving — the cycle went on for years . Eventually , he was diagnosed with complex post - traumatic stress disorder and referred to Op Courage . Even then , it took several more years in temporary accommodation and him witnessing a violent incident , before Op Courage and Help for Heroes were able to get John the specialist accommodation in my constituency that has allowed him to start to move forward with his life . I know just how great a step it was for John to share his story with me . I take three things from John ’s story . The first is that we owe our veterans much more than our silence and respect on Armistice Day ; it is our duty to speak up whenever the systems that come from this place fall short . Secondly , safe and accessible housing is vital . That is why I was so proud to hear just a few weeks ago the Prime Minister announce the Government ’s commitment to house all veterans . Thirdly , John ’s experience tells me that our commitment to respecting every veteran must reach through every Government Department and every level of staff if we are to succeed — from the Secretary of State down to every member of frontline staff . That is the culture change needed to deliver for people such as John who have served our country . The spirit of remembrance is defined by what we do for one another , and the contribution that every one of us can make . With shared effort , we can build a greater legacy for those who served us — now and in the future .