Members ’ Productiivity : Digital Tools With permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the conflict in Ukraine , as we prepare to mark two years since the start of the full - scale Russian invasion . Like many in this House , I remember exactly where I was on 24 February 2022 . Just before sunrise , I was woken by a phone call to be told that Russia had illegally invaded Ukraine , and that a car would be outside at 6 am , headed for Cobra . After that meeting , Ministers were all asked to speak to their respective Ukrainian counterparts . At the time , I was Transport Secretary , and my arrangement was to speak via Zoom with my then opposite number , Oleksandr Kubrakov . Oleksandr , who I have subsequently got to know very well , was standing in the middle of a field outside Kyiv . I asked him about the situation , and he told me that quite frankly , he did not know how much longer the city would last . The Russian army was understood to be just kilometres away ; the wolf , or in this case the Russian bear , was literally at the door ; and expert opinion suggested that Kyiv would be taken in perhaps three days . However , as this war drags into its third year , far from winning , Russia has been pushed back since those early days . Putin has achieved none of his strategic objectives , his invading force has suffered a staggering 356,000 casualties , and Ukraine has destroyed or damaged about 30 % of the Russian Black sea fleet and retaken 50 % of the territory that Russia stole from it . Meanwhile , Oleksandr Kubrakov is now the Deputy Prime Minister , and his job is the restoration of Ukraine when this is over . Putin arrogantly assumed that this conflict would be over in days , and he was wrong . He reckoned without the strength of the international support that would rally to Ukraine ’s cause . I am proud that , over the course of the past 730 days , Britain has been at the forefront of that global response . Our efforts , always a step ahead of our allies , have made a genuine difference . From the outset , we declassified intelligence specifically to scupper Russian false flags . Our NLAW anti - tank missiles , provided in advance of the full - scale invasion , and our Javelins helped brave Ukrainians devastate Putin ’s menacing 40 - mile armoured convoy , which was headed directly at Kyiv . We were the first to send main battle tanks with our Challenger squadron , plus 500 armoured vehicles and 15,000 anti - armour weapons . All of this helped to degrade Russia ’s once formidable fighting force , with Putin losses amounting to 2,700 main battle tanks , 5,300 armoured vehicles and 1,400 artillery pieces . Throughout this conflict , our 4 million rounds of small arms ammunition have allowed Ukraine to maintain a rate of fire , and recently helped keep the Russians at bay during their winter offensive . Meanwhile , the Kremlin has been unable to achieve the air superiority that it assumed it would have , in part thanks to our donation of 1,800 air defence missiles , and over 4,000 British drones have been sent to date . This conflict has indeed demonstrated that drones are changing the face of modern warfare , and we are already learning the lessons from that . That is why , earlier today , my hon . Friend the Minister for Defence Procurement launched the UK defence drone strategy to stay ahead on this new frontier of technology — backed by at least £ 200 million , announced by the Prime Minister recently — making the UK the biggest drone partner for Ukraine . Yet it is actually at sea where the allied contribution to Ukraine ’s cause has been most keenly felt . Our mighty Storm Shadows and our uncrewed sea systems have helped Ukraine achieve a breakthrough in the Black sea . Not only has Russia ’s fleet lost seven different surface ships plus a submarine , but a Black sea corridor has opened up for trade , allowing Ukraine to export 19 million tonnes of cargo , including 13.4 million tonnes of agricultural produce . At the end of last month , Ukrainian agricultural exports from its Black sea ports reached the highest level since the war began , far exceeding what happened under Putin ’s Black sea grain initiative . As President Zelensky said to me when I visited , the UK ’s contribution has been monumental . He pointed out that , since the start of the conflict , the UK has sent almost 400 different types of capabilities to Ukraine . Together , we have shown that when Ukraine gets what it needs , it can win , which is why the UK is continuing to step up our support . Last month , the Prime Minister announced that we will be investing a further £ 2.5 billion in military support for Ukraine , taking our total military package so far to over £ 7 billion and our total support to over £ 12 billion , accounting for humanitarian and economic support as well . In that spirit , today I can announce a new package of 200 Brimstone anti - tank missiles in a further boost to defend Ukraine . These missiles have previously had significant impact on the battlefield , in one instance forcing Russian forces to abandon and to retreat from an attempted crossing of a river . Members will recall that , a few days ago , President Zelensky told the Munich security conference that an “ artificial deficit of weapons ” will only help Russia , and he is right . So today we are giving Ukraine more of the help it needs , inflating its capabilities so that it can defend freedom ’s frontline . Other capabilities will also be coming its way . Our UK founded and administered international fund for Ukraine has pledged more than £ 900 million to help Ukraine plug gaps in its capabilities , delivering cutting - edge drones along with electronic warfare and mine clearance capabilities , with millions of pounds of kit to come . We are investing not just in weapons , but in the brave personnel who serve . So far , Britain has put more than 60,000 Ukrainians through their paces here in the UK , but Operation Interflex , our main training effort , is going to expand even further . I am delighted to announce that Kosovo and Estonia have joined us , Australia , Canada , Denmark , New Zealand , Norway , the Netherlands , Sweden , Finland , Lithuania and Romania in all training Ukrainian troops here in Britain . Together , we will train a further 10,000 in the first half of 2024 . Meanwhile , we are building capability coalitions . Alongside Norway , we are leading a maritime capability coalition , and we have been joined by a dozen other countries in this enterprise . This is about mine detection drones , raiding craft and Sea King helicopters , which have already been sent its way , so that Ukraine can build its navy and defend its sovereign waters . Last week , I met my NATO counterparts in Brussels , and I announced that , together with Latvia , we would lead the drone coalition . That will allow us to scale up and streamline the west ’s provision of miniature first - person view — FPV — drones to Ukraine , while supporting the establishment of a drone school for Ukrainian operators and a test range , as well as developing AI swarm drone technology , which will surely be critical in the next phase of this war . Britain has earmarked some £ 200 million to procure and produce long - range strike and sea drones , and become Ukraine ’s largest supplier of drones . Yet this is far from the summit of our ambitions . In December , we set up a new taskforce to build a strong defence industrial partnership with Ukraine , ensuring that Ukraine can sustain the fight for years to come . In January , the Prime Minister signed the historic security co - operation agreement . This is the start of a 100 - year alliance that we are building with our Ukrainian friends . Once again , it is the United Kingdom that has signed the first such agreement , with welcome signings from France and Germany having followed . The Ukrainians have the will and they have the skills , and they have shown that if they are given the tools , they can do the job , but their need today remains particularly urgent . Russia is continuing to attack along almost the entire frontline , only recently decimating and then capturing the eastern town of Avdiivka . The Kremlin continues to callously strike at civilian targets , most recently hitting a hospital in Selydove . Putin is making no secret whatsoever of being in this for the long term . Russia ’s economy has indeed shifted on to a full - time war footing , spending some 30 % of its federal expenditure on its defence — a nominal increase of almost 70 % just on last year alone . If the cruel death of the remarkable , brave Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny has taught us anything , it is that Putin ’s victory is something that none of us can afford . The tyrant of the Kremlin is determined simply to wait out the west . He believes that we lack the stomach for the fight , and we must show him that we are wrong . This House may not be united on all matters , as we have seen in the past 24 hours , but we are united on one thing : our support for Ukraine . So the UK will continue to double down on that support , and all freedom - loving countries must be compelled to do the same . This year will be make or break for Ukraine , so it is time for the west and all civilised nations to step up and give Ukraine the backing it needs . Two years ago , when I spoke to an anxious Oleksandr Kubrakov , who had retreated to that field outside Kyiv , he did not know what would happen to Ukraine . Now , entering the third year of this conflict , it is remarkable to see that Ukrainians remain in full fight . I know that the whole House will join me in saying that the UK will not stop supporting the brave Ukrainians , our friends , until they have won and have victory . I do not entirely agree with the right hon . Member ’s characterisation of the UK response in terms of deindustrialisation . I do agree that it is difficult overall to suddenly ramp up from whatever level we are producing at on a non - war footing , but it is heartening to know — I think this is right , but it is off the top of my head ; I will correct the figures if I have got it wrong — that our munitions and missile production is now eight times the level it was before the war , so we have certainly stepped up . In addition , we are carrying out rounds of procurement through the international fund for Ukraine , which we established and which is still receiving new contributions . I am delighted that Australia has just donated $ 50 million to that fund . I think — again , this is off the top of my head — there have been 27 rounds of contract procurement so far . I am not familiar with the particular case that the right hon . Member cited , so I will write back to him on the detail , but it is encouraging that we have been able to set up a mechanism so that other countries that have not had our scale of ambition and footprint on Ukraine can put in their own money , so that we can buy in coalition on their behalf . We will continue to do that .