I welcome my hon . Friend to her place . She and I were involved in Young Labour together — only a few years ago , I feel — so it is great to see her finally in this place where she belongs . She raises the important matter of NHS dentistry and the difficulty that people have getting an NHS appointment , which is particularly acute in Norfolk . That is why the Government are committed to a rescue plan and to providing another 700,000 NHS dentist appointments , which I hope will relieve that acuteness in Norfolk . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair , although it feels a bit weird to welcome anyone here , given that I have been here for about two minutes . I follow on from the excellent contributions made by my hon . Friends the Members for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , and for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) among others . I praise in particular my hon . Friend for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , both because he gave an excellent speech and because his mum is one of my constituents . As I start this new job , I have been thinking a lot about my family ; I was doing so while preparing my remarks today . I was thinking in particular of my grandpa , who was a coalminer in the coalfields of Lanarkshire , just outside Glasgow . When I was a wee boy , he would tell me of the conditions that he worked in : “ Darkness , ” he said , “ so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eyes and still not be able to see it . ” In that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandweans , as he would say . All the while he toiled , he was inhaling fumes so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . My dad , a welder , is here today — off during the Glasgow fair — along with my mum , who runs her own business , to watch me from the Gallery . My career so far has been very different from that of my parents and grandparents . For a start , they have a proper job , whereas I am now doing this for a living , but it has been different for two related reasons . The first is the Labour party — both in the sense that it has helped to provide me with a new job , and in the protections that it has delivered for working people . Health and safety legislation , delivered by Labour and built by the trade union movement , have ended the kind of conditions that my grandparents worked in . The second reason my career has been different is technology . I suspect that today in Britain there are more bitcoin miners than coalminers , and that is ultimately a good thing . Coalmining was difficult , hard , laborious work . As a kid I spent many long hours in front of my computer and , while much of that was spent playing FIFA against my wee brother Mark , some of it was more productive , because I taught myself to code . I watched YouTube videos and over weeks , months and years I learned how to build software . I developed iPhone apps that were used around the world , meaning that code written on my laptop in Glasgow could be pushed out to devices around the world in seconds and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from Los Angeles to Dubai . If it can do that , technology can reform our public services too . Technology might even help to reform this House , as we are debating today . I hope and know that high - growth , innovative businesses in my home city of Glasgow will be a key part of that . Much has been said and written about Glasgow over the years , but one thing sticks with me in particular . Anthony Bourdain was not a man known for his parliamentary language , so let us just say that he described Glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an “ antidote ” to the world , in his words , “ so unapologetically working class and attitude - free ” . I think he was right because , of all the things I love about Glasgow , it is our people and our humour that I enjoy most . If someone ever gets a wee bit too big for their boots , returning home to Glasgow will soon put an end to that — something I am sure will be increasingly useful the longer I spend in this place . Unlike many Glaswegians , my admiration even extends to some of Glasgow ’s politicians . It is customary in speeches such as this to praise our predecessors , but I know that for some that will be done through slightly gritted teeth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . In my case , I talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . Stewart McDonald served the people of Glasgow South diligently and built an enviable reputation in this place . He was particularly respected for his long - standing support for the people of Ukraine , something that saw him awarded the Ukrainian order of merit . If I leave this place having done half as much as he did for people around the world fighting for democracy , I will leave a happy man . Before Stewart , there were Labour predecessors . There was Tom Harris , who has been personally kind to me ; John Maxton , now Lord Maxton , whose son taught me modern studies in high school , believe it or not — although I will leave it up to others to decide whether he did a good or bad job of that — and of course Teddy Taylor , who is still remembered fondly by many of my constituents . I would also like to mention two other Members of this House who had a big impact on my life , both from Glasgow . The former Member for East Kilbride , Adam Ingram , grew up in the east end of Glasgow and was one of the first people I ever spoke to in the Labour party . His advice and wise counsel has been a constant source of support to me over the years , and I am incredibly grateful . The other is a southsider , my friend and the former Member for Glasgow Central , Anas Sarwar . I had the great privilege of serving as the director of Anas ’s successful leadership campaign to become leader of Scottish Labour . Three and a half years ago , as we sat beginning that campaign , it was hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moments , I do not think we would have predicted this . I stand here as one of 37 Scottish Labour MPs . Having praised three Glaswegians , I will do something unusual for a Glasgow MP and praise someone from Edinburgh . My right hon . Friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) has been a friend of mine for many years , and he deserves enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole Scottish Labour MP , and for being someone who recognised that the Labour party had to change if it was to earn people ’s trust once again . It gives me enormous pleasure and pride to see him in his rightful place as the Secretary of State for Scotland . That brief interlude aside , we return to Scotland ’s real capital city . I am privileged to represent Glasgow ’s southside , a place that has had something of a renaissance in recent years , boasting the trendy tenements of Shawlands , the tree - lined avenues of Newlands and the beautiful conservation village of Carmunnock , among others . My constituency contains many of Glasgow ’s beautiful parks , of which Linn Park , Queen ’s Park and Pollok Country Park are just a few . In the latter , hon . Members will find the Burrell collection , which was awarded the Art Fund ’s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . Like many parts of the city , however , we are not without difficulties . Castlemilk is an area with enormous spirit and the kindest people anyone will ever meet , but it also remains an area with challenges . Even today , the simple act of getting a supermarket in Castlemilk has proven difficult , something I hope I hope to change as local MP . What is true of all my constituency is that it is an outward - looking , diverse and welcoming place . The Scots - Asian community in particular have contributed enormously to Glasgow ’s character , and I am very proud to represent them here in Parliament . Immigration has made my constituency richer , and it makes our country richer , too . The southside of Glasgow is also a passionately pro - European place . Although Brexit was settled in the previous Parliament , I intend to support the Government ’s moves to repair our relationship with Europe . My first duty is to my constituency and my country — being the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South is the only job that I will do , so long as the people of Glasgow South wish for me to continue — but I also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many millions of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toiling away in darkness , just as my grandpa did all those years ago . I hope that none of us in this House forgets the millions — indeed , billions — of people around the world who are not as lucky as us , including those facing persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bound by modern slavery . I am one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but I will never forget the people who put me here and the people who do not have a voice . Delivering for them will be how I judge my success .