Not so much , she says , so there we go . I reiterate that the disability action plan is not just another consultation , but real , tangible action to change people ’s daily lives , with 13 practical actions across 14 different areas . It is about building a society that works for everyone . The hon . Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) is right to point out that day - to - day life is too difficult for disabled people and their families ; I agree with her . That is why we have taken the opportunities we can take in this round , alongside the wider national disabilities strategy . I would love to boil the ocean and to have fixed everything in the month or so I have been in the role , but I assure hon . Members that irrespective of the perceived level of the role , I have the convening power and support across Government . I am delighted that the hon . Lady keeps pushing for my elevation , but under the previous Labour Administration the Minister for Disabled People was an Under - Secretary of State . I am extremely proud to be an Under - Secretary of State — I thank my right hon . Friend for her point about the Special Olympics . When I was Sports Minister , I had the honour of meeting her constituent . I share his passion for a very important movement . It is potentially life changing , which is why I am delighted that it is in this plan . My right hon . Friend asks about the evidence and data around the disability action plan . The plan is there to improve the quality of Government health data , and to increase insight into the needs and barriers that affect disabled people ’s daily lives . Ultimately , we will evaluate the impact of these policies and services , and we will use data , when they are available , to monitor and assess the outcomes of the plan . We will start work on developing more comprehensive evaluation . I know that , through her role as the Chair of the Select Committee , she will absolutely measure me and my role in this . I assure her , the House and all those watching that the plan is absolutely about learning , and delivering on this challenge .