I beg to move , That the Bill be now read a Second time . In this place , our nation ’s Parliament , change comes in many forms . Sometimes it is the clamour of the picket line , the lobby group or Members ’ own interests . Sometimes it comes in the shape of an MP ’s constituency surgery and the quiet working man ; a man who knows what is right and wrong , who seizes injustice and internal fury and propels it to this place to be remedied . He fights not for himself — he knows the barriers that he faces — but for every man , woman and every one of us , as we face the cruel certainty of age , and age discrimination in the workplace . The man is Stephen Horne . I am proud that he is my constituent , and I am proud today to speak to Stephen ’s Bill . stand with him on tackling the endemic age discrimination in our society . The Bill aims to address the provision at the heart of the nation ’s challenge . Jo Gideon ( Stoke - on - Trent Central ) ( Con ): I support my hon . Friend ’s Bill , as she knows . The protection of other characteristics — gender , race and religion , for example — is generally observed in employment law . Does she agree that pervasive age discrimination is a big issue that we need to tackle , as her Bill will do in a small but important way ? Mrs Elphicke : My hon . Friend is exactly right . Age discrimination is absolutely pervasive in our society . It is such a common experience that one in three people report having experienced it . We must tackle that injustice . The Bill repeals paragraph 14 of schedule 9 to the Equality Act 2010 , which allows workplace benefits to be removed from a working person solely by reason of their coming to statutory pensionable age . I was pleased to introduce the Bill under the ten - minute rule last year , and I am pleased to bring it back today with strong support from so many Members across the House who , like me , believe that we urgently need to tackle this issue . People in their 50s and 60s commonly experience discrimination because of their age , and 37 % of those incidents are at work , according to the Centre for Ageing Better . One in five employers believes that age discrimination occurs in their organisation , and many argue that ageism is a key barrier for people aged 50 to 64 who want to return to or remain in their workplace . Paragraph 14 allows active discrimination under the law , and so opens the door to other forms of indirect and unconscious bias discrimination . That was well explored by the Women and Equalities Committee , which said that it is clear that there is “ prejudice , unconscious bias and casual ageism in the workplace ” , as well as inadequate challenge to current practices . Stephen is a train driver with Eurotunnel . He helped to build the tunnel before it first opened 30 years ago , and he has driven a train since the very first went through the tunnel . When he reached the age of 66 , his bosses decided to remove his workplace benefits relating to income protection and long - term sickness , and his health insurance . That puts Stephen at a disadvantage compared with other workers . He is doing the same job at 66 as he did at 65 , but now he does not get the same money ’s worth , or the same terms and conditions in his contract of employment . In simple terms , Stephen does not get pay and conditions equal to those of a younger worker solely by reason of his age . That is not right . If Stephen falls ill , he can not get the same access to speedy private healthcare that other people in his company get , including for a workplace injury , which means that he might be out of the workplace for longer . If — heaven forbid — he died , his wife Marsha would no longer have the compensatory insurance through death - in - service benefits that another worker ’s family would be entitled to , yet Stephen is doing exactly the same job as he was before he reached retirement age . When looking into Stephen ’s case , I was shocked to discover that such age discrimination is legal . The Equality Act 2010 is supposed to provide protection for older people against age discrimination . Age is , as my hon . Friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly said , a protected characteristic , and it needs to be treated as such . That exception in the Act means that Stephen and workers up and down the land face discrimination , and similar issues with terms and conditions . We need to tackle that issue , because people are staying in the workplace longer , and because it is unfair and wrong . It needs to be tackled in this place through a change in the law . I have had discussions with companies about why they do not just do the right thing , why they do not change this unfair practice , and why they do not look after all their workers better . The answer that I have had is simple : they will not do that until we in this Parliament say that they must , because they do not want to have to pay more by offering those terms and conditions . The bottom line is that they do not want older workers like Stephen . That is not right , and it is not something this country can afford , either . People are working until a much older age ; that has become more acute as the Government have changed the pensionable age . Stephen ’s Bill seeks to put right the situation for every older worker in this country by changing the law on workplace benefits , so that older people are treated the same as others in any other part of the employment relationship . We know why this matters . There was a time when a pregnant woman had to quit her job and leave the workplace ; indeed , there was a time when women were not welcome in many workplaces . There was a time when women were not given paid maternity leave , men were not given paid paternity leave and women would not get jobs if they were of childbearing age . We have addressed that through Parliament over decades . Now employers find that retaining women in the workplace — indeed , having them at the very top levels in the boardroom — benefits not just mothers , but businesses . Businesses can now retain the vital skills , knowledge and commitment of female workers , and that needs to happen in relation to older workers too . Older workers have skills and knowledge gained over many years in the workplace . Treating older workers fairly will encourage them to stay , and benefit the companies they work for . I remember a time when employers used to say that a woman did not need to work , get the same bonuses as a man or be offered overtime , because men needed those opportunities in order to feed their families . We outlawed that because equal pay at work matters and equal opportunity at work matters , too . That applies every bit as much whether it is a younger or older worker doing the job . Another excuse that is given is that covering older people becomes more expensive for everyone , because the premium for the company goes up . That is , of course , absurd . Applying that logic , would it be okay to exclude from employment benefits people who have had a heart condition , cancer , a bad back , a disability or a chronic condition , on the basis that the insurance might go up ? Of course not . It would not be lawful , and it should not be lawful for that to happen simply because of someone ’s age . We have said in other cases that taking away someone ’s work benefits is discriminatory and wrong , and it is discriminatory and wrong to do so simply because they have got older . That is something that none of us can influence or affect ; it will happen to us all . Even in this place and , as we have heard recently , even in Government , people ’s terms and conditions and severance pay differ depending on the age at which they take their role or responsibility . It is time for us to amend this great injustice . Stephen knows that the challenge that he faces in changing the minds of his bosses is enormous , and there is no indication that they are prepared to do that . However , I know from speaking to businesses that there are things that the Government can do , beyond changing the law , to ensure that this injustice is addressed . That could include ensuring there are compensatory payments to give equivalence , on an equal pay basis , to people who do not have access to the same pay and conditions as others . That means making it unlawful for those offering insurance to have that kind of discriminatory condition , which we should do . This is such an important time for our nation , as we look for everyone to contribute , and require people to work in , older life . It is essential that we put in place the right laws , protection and framework , so that whatever people want to do in older age , they are treated fairly and equally . That is the reason that Stephen has asked me — The debate stood adjourned ( Standing Order No . 11(2 ) ) . Ordered , That the debate be resumed on Friday 15 March .