I thank the hon . Lady for raising the issue and bringing it to the House . She is absolutely right to draw attention to the National Audit Office report and its damning indictment of a system that has lost the confidence of families and is failing children with special educational needs and disabilities . She rightly calls for the system to be reformed . That is what this Government are absolutely focused on and determined to do . One of the first differences that we made on coming into office was moving the special educational needs and disabilities remit within the schools sector . Our vision is one of mainstream inclusive education for all children who would benefit from it , while having specialist schools where we know that children with the most complex needs can have those needs met . That is not being delivered , and for far too many families it is not the reality . It is a reality that we urgently need to see , not only to address the local authority deficits to which the hon . Lady rightly refers , but to create better outcomes for children . At the moment , the system costs the Treasury a significant amount . The hon . Lady tempts me into anticipating next week ’s Budget statement or making announcements ahead of it , which she knows I can not , but she is right to identify that the system costs an increasing amount but is not delivering the outcomes that children deserve and families want . We are absolutely determined to reform the system . We are working at pace . All the changes that we have made since coming into office are to that end . We have launched the curriculum and assessment review , which will support a broad and inclusive education for all children . We have made changes to Ofsted ; those changes are continuing at pace to ensure that the system takes into account the whole school life and journey . That includes creating an inclusive environment for children with special educational needs . Most of all , we are determined to restore parents ’ trust that , in our education system , if their child has special educational needs they will be identified early — we know that early identification is key — and supported . We are continuing to support early language and speech intervention and to prioritise the roll - out of special educational needs training for the early years workforce to ensure that children ’s needs can be identified at the earliest point . We are expanding our childcare system to ensure that more children can get into settings as early as possible , so any needs can be identified and so we can rebuild the public ’s trust that every child in our state sector will get the opportunity of a fantastic education , regardless of any additional special educational needs or disabilities . My hon . Friend highlights the fact that not only is the system creating stress and failing far too many children and families , but it is not creating the outcomes that we want to see for every child , including those with special educational needs and disabilities . I will raise the important point she has made with my colleague in the Department of Health who has responsibility for apprenticeships .