I will try to pick out the questions from the bluster . On the £ 120 million , this is a specific issue that affects September 2024 onwards , where we allocated to local authorities 22 weeks of funding because that is the period from September to March . Some then said that they pay 26 weeks to their providers , so we have that money in order that they can provide 26 weeks of funding where that is what they do . On the funding rates , we announced the funding rates for three and four - year - olds in April last year , and for two - year - olds in November . Given that local authorities have to pass on 95 % of the money that we give them , providers have a pretty good idea of what they will receive . However , while the vast majority of authorities will confirm their rates in the coming weeks , a small number leave it until 31 March . We are encouraging them not to do that , and to confirm their rates as early as possible in the same way as the others . The hon . Lady asked how many families would not be able to access the childcare offer as a result of those two issues . The answer is none . As she knows , we have increased funding rates significantly . Neil Leitch , to whom she referred , is in our stakeholder group , and we value his input . However , I think it will be clear to people watching these exchanges that while we get on with the biggest delivery of childcare ever , the Labour party has no plan , no policy , and no idea how to help families with childcare costs . We set our rates by conducting a survey of 10,000 providers , in order to understand the costs they face and set the rates accordingly . Last November , we delayed publishing the rates a bit , in order that we could provide more money to take account of the Government ’s near 10 % increase in the national living wage . We believe we are getting them right in relation to what people are paying , but if the hon . Lady has particular evidence she would like to send me , I will happily look at it . I set out in my statement the additional money that we had given to the sector in the last financial year and this one to help it to meet those cost pressures — that was anchored to the survey of 10,000 providers that I talked about . Again , if the hon . Gentleman wants to send me information , data or specific case studies , I will gladly have a look . The hon . Gentleman raises an important point about the increased cost pressures that everybody has to face . That is why we gave an additional £ 204 million in the last financial year and a further £ 400 million in the current financial year to help meet those pressures , based on the fact that we surveyed 10,000 providers in order to understand exactly what they are paying for all the things he outlines .