With permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the United Kingdom ’s economic relationship with the United States . The UK has a strong and balanced trading relationship with the US worth £ 315 billion , which supports 2.5 million jobs across both our countries . This is second only to the EU , where our trading relationship is worth £ 791 billion . Yesterday evening the United States announced a 10 % reciprocal tariff on UK exports , and it has today imposed a 25 % global tariff on cars . That follows the application of tariffs of 25 % on US imports of steel , aluminium and derivative products announced on 12 March . No country was able to secure an exemption from those announcements , but the UK did receive the lowest reciprocal tariff rate globally . And although that vindicates the pragmatic approach the Government have taken , we know that while the tariffs are still being levied the job is far from done . We are , of course , disappointed by the increase in tariffs on the UK and on other countries around the world . The impact will be felt among all trading nations . But I would like to update the House on how the UK can navigate these turbulent times , acting in our national interest and for the benefit of all our industries . I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my American counterparts , Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick , US trade representative Jamieson Greer , and special envoy Mark Burnett for their engagement over the past few months . While any imposition of tariffs is deeply regrettable , from the beginning they promised to make themselves available and they have been true to their word . I look forward to our continued engagement over the days ahead . As Members will know , since the new US Administration took office , my colleagues and I have been engaged in intensive discussions on an economic deal between the US and the UK , one that would not just avoid the imposition of significant tariffs but deepen our economic relationship . On everything from defence , economic security , financial services , machinery , tech and regulation , there are clear synergies between the US and UK markets . That is reflected in the fair and balanced trading relationship that already exists between our two countries . I can confirm to the House that those talks are ongoing and will remain so . It is the Government ’s view that a deal is not just possible but favourable to both countries , and that this course of action serves Britain ’s interests as an open - facing trading nation . I have been in contact with many businesses , across a broad range of sectors , including those most affected , who have very much welcomed this approach . It is clear to me that industry itself wants to grasp the opportunity a deal can offer and welcomes the Government ’s cool - headed approach . In increasingly insecure times , I have heard some Members cling to the security of simple answers and loud voices . I understand the compulsion , but I caution Members of this House to keep calm and remain clear - eyed on what is in our national interest , not simply to proclaim that we follow the actions of other countries . The British people rightly expect the Government to keep our country secure at home and abroad , and an unnecessary , escalating trade war would serve neither goal . True strength comes in making the right choices at the right time . Thanks to the actions of our Prime Minister , who has restored Britain ’s place on the world stage , the UK is in a unique position to do a deal where we can , and to respond when we must . It remains our belief that the best route to economic stability for working people is a negotiated deal with the US that builds on our shared strengths . However , we do reserve the right to take any action we deem necessary if a deal is not secured . To enable the UK to have every option open to us in the future , I am today launching a request for input on the implications for British businesses of possible retaliatory action . This is a formal step and it is necessary for us to keep all options on the table . We will seek the views of UK stakeholders over four weeks until 1 May 2025 on products that could potentially be included in any UK tariff response . This exercise will also give businesses the chance to have their say and influence the design of any possible UK action . If we are in a position to agree an economic deal with the US that lifts the tariffs that have been placed on our industries , this request for input will be paused , and any measures flowing from it will be lifted . Further information on the request for input will be published on great.gov.uk later today , alongside an indicative list of potential products that the Government consider most appropriate for inclusion . I know that this will be an anxious time for all businesses , not just those with direct trade links to America . Let me say very clearly that we stand ready to support businesses through this . That starts by ensuring that businesses have reliable information ; any businesses that are concerned about what these changes mean for them can find clear guidance and support on great.gov.uk , where there is now a bespoke webpage . This Government were elected to bring security back to working people ’s lives . At a time of volatility , businesses and workers alike are looking to this Government to keep our heads , act in the national interest and navigate Britain through this period . While some may urge escalation , I simply will not play politics with people ’s jobs . This Government will strive for a deal that supports our industries and the well - paid jobs that come with them , while preparing our trade defences and keeping all options on the table . This is the right approach to defend the UK ’s domestic industries from the direct and indirect impacts of US tariffs in a way that is both measured and proportionate , while respecting the rules - based international trading system . As the world continues to change around us , British workers and businesses can be assured of one constant : this is a Government who will not be set off course in choppy waters . The final part of our approach will be to turbo - boost the work this Government are doing to make our economy stronger and more secure , including our new industrial strategy . We will strike trade deals with our partners and work closely with our allies for our shared prosperity . We have a clear destination to deliver economic security for working people . We are progressing a deal that can do just that , laying the foundations to move quickly should it not , and ensuring that British businesses have a clear voice in what happens next . I commend this statement to the House .