I could not agree with my hon . Friend more . Edinburgh has a thriving space sector , as does Scotland . My hon . Friend has for many years been heavily involved in work to grow the economy in Edinburgh and the Borders , and I pay tribute to him for that . I must , however , take this opportunity to pick a minor bone with my hon . Friend . He mentioned that Glasgow does not have a castle , and I wish to correct the record . We have a fine ruined castle called Crookston castle . It is the second - oldest building in Glasgow . The first - oldest building in Glasgow is the beautiful cathedral . I will not indulge in a dispute about whether Edinburgh or Glasgow is the better city . They are both beautiful , great cities . Glasgow is slightly better , but there you are . I am obliged to my hon . Friend for his intervention , and I am also glad to be able to correct that point . There is another reason why it is important that we have a thriving space and satellite industry . Space is critical to defence , and we must have a thriving space sector to protect our country . The United Kingdom works with allies to ensure that our interests are defended in space . However , the world is becoming more unstable , and it is essential that we have our own capabilities to launch and operate satellites from the United Kingdom , and this Bill is important in that regard , too . It will help to secure a vibrant end - to - end space industry in the United Kingdom , and that is important for defence . To take one example , having our own domestic launch capability is important , and a vibrant civilian sector will help to cover the costs of that launch capability . This Bill also has a national security theme . Owing to much hard work , including by the last Government , the UK Space Agency and many others , the United Kingdom also has a firm foundation for a thriving space industry . In the time available , I can not provide a complete survey of the vibrant and growing space industry , but here are some key points . One key task we have had is to develop our own launch capability to put satellites up in space , and then to get them back down . That is why there is so much chat about spaceports — in my life , at least . SaxaVord , the UK spaceport in the Shetland Islands , is one of only two licensed vertical launch spaceports in Europe . That is at the far end of the north of the map of our family of nations . Down in the far south - west , we also have an operational spaceport in Cornwall . That illustrates that space is an opportunity for our family of nations from the very top to the very bottom — I mean that only in a cartographic sense ; I am not looking to offend any Members from Cornwall . There are also spaceports under construction and planned in : Sutherland , on the far north of the coast of Scotland , to the west of Thurso ; North Uist , a wonderful place , which I commend as I spent much of my honeymoon there ; Glasgow Prestwick ; Spaceport Machrihanish , on the southern tip of the Argyll peninsula , which I would also recommend for a visit to Scotland ; and , Snowdonia . Some may wonder where those places are . They are all wonderful places , and they illustrate that space is an opportunity across the United Kingdom . Let us turn to the satellite or , as Lou Reed sang , “ Satellite of Love ” . The UK has incredible talents in manufacturing satellites and satellite technology . As a Scottish MP , I focus on Scotland , and as a Glasgow MP , I focus on Glasgow , but let us start in the Moray firth , where my mother came from . It has a fine tradition of engineering . For those who follow highland league football — I suspect I am in a minority of one in the House today — the fact that Forres Mechanics is one of the oldest football clubs in the north of Scotland points to a tradition of engineering there . The Jones shipyard in Buckie is another great engineering industry in the north of Scotland . Of significantly more relevance to this debate is that Forres is home to Orbex , which is developing a rocket called Prime . It will be the first UK - manufactured and UK - launched orbital rocket . Prime is set to take off from SaxaVord in 2025 . Prime is set to take off from SaxaVord in 2025 . The UK Government have recently announced a £ 20 million investment in Orbex — an important investment that demonstrates the opportunities being brought to the north of Scotland , for which we need to redouble our efforts to secure economic growth and prosperity . My home city of Glasgow has a rich history of innovation and an incredibly promising cluster of space expertise . As a Glasgow MP , I am determined that it should have a bright future in space . Glasgow is building more satellites than any other city in Europe . There are fantastic companies in the area including , Alba Orbital , which specialises in PocketQube satellites , AAC Clyde Space , which has expertise in small satellite technology , and Spire Global , which is a leading provider of space - based data analytics and space services . This year is Glasgow ’s 850th birthday . The Bill will help secure the prosperity of Glasgow for the next 850 years , creating jobs and economic growth in my great city of hard work , innovation and enterprise . There is clear economic analysis that shows that the space industry is an important opportunity area for growth and jobs . The latest “ Size and Health of the UK Space Industry ” report estimates that 228 organisations in Scotland generated a combined income of £ 298 million in 2021 - 22 — almost double that of 2018 - 19 in real terms . About 6,500 people work in space in Scotland , and the figure for the UK is between 48,000 and 52,000 . Income amounts to between £ 17.5 billion and £ 20 billion . There are more than 100,000 jobs in the supply chain as well . Let us pause for a moment on that : we have only just got going on this and we have 48,000 or more jobs . There is much potential here for many more good , high - paid jobs of the future , which is what Britain needs .