I look forward to that opportunity . I have written to the North East Mayor asking for engagement on that , and I would be delighted if the hon . Lady joined me for such a meeting , should it arise . Ferryhill station is not just about travel ; it is also about economic regeneration . The station closed as part of the Beeching cuts in 1967 , the same year that the Ferryhill mines closed — and the same year , as it happens , that I moved out of Ferryhill to Newton Aycliffe , about six miles away . It meant that residents lost not just a source of local jobs , but a means of travelling to new jobs . It is therefore an imperative that the project , which was recently confirmed again by the Prime Minister , now makes urgent progress . Like any investment , it will show the communities at or near the station — Ferryhill , Chilton , Mainsforth , Dean Bank , Cornforth and Bishop Middleham — that they are valued , while also presenting increased opportunities for those that are slightly further away , such as Spennymoor and Tudhoe . One of the tenets of my election in 2019 was the desire to improve access to opportunities for all , and no one is more needing or deserving of opportunity than the residents of what were , and still are , described as mining villages . One cause of mine has been to encourage aspiration , particularly for the young people of Sedgefield , and that flows from sessions with the ambassadors of Ferryhill primary schools , led by Glenys Newby , as well as visits to schools in Hurworth , Wheatley Hill and everywhere in between . To enable and encourage aspiration , it is critical that we create opportunity . Opportunity comes from jobs and careers , which is why I am so pleased about the growth of NETPark , a science community within two miles of Fishburn , a former mining village . Close to my mining communities is the new town of Newton Aycliffe , which offers 10,000 jobs , including at Hitachi . It is fundamental for the recovery of the mining communities that industries of the future can be sustained , including at Hitachi . I am working with everyone from unions to the Secretary of State , to find a way for those industries to continue admirably inspiring their workforce in the future . However , they will help the communities most in need only if my mining villages can reach them via the bus connection that I mentioned . If we wish to secure future growth , we must develop new skills . I am enormously encouraged by the growth in apprenticeships in the area , where 13,490 have started since 2010 , and by the increasing quality of our schools , which is helping to deliver better educational outcomes . Over the past 14 years , we have gone from 67 % of our schools being rated good or outstanding to 91 % today . Opportunity is supported by education , and I have been delighted to engage not only with schools but with the amazing universities that support my constituency — most notably Durham University . I commend the work being done to reach out to communities . I am delighted that Fiona Hill , the recently appointed chancellor of Durham University , hails from Bishop Auckland , a place with challenges similar to those in my communities , so she gets it . Fiona Hill hails from a disadvantaged background but managed to rise to work on the international stage , and has now returned to become chancellor of Durham University . I support the university ’s “ Shy bairns get nowt ” project , which is an attempt to instil more confidence in our young people so that they speak up and are not only heard but listened to . I have such hope for the former mining communities in my area . We need to continue efforts to support education and aspiration , and to deliver better transport for those communities . Despite their challenges , I can see the potential they have to reinvent themselves . However , I can not stress enough just how crucial bus and train services are to that process . I look forward to seeing the services improve and those amazing communities become the places that they deserve to be .