I am very proud that more than 4,000 students now have T - levels on their CV . In the summer , 3,190 students completed their T - levels with a pass or above , meaning that we had a pass rate of 90.5 % before factoring in remarking and retakes . We will publish a T - level action plan with more information early next year . Not content with being in the anti - apprenticeship party , given her plans to weaken the apprenticeship levy and halve the number of apprenticeships , the hon . Lady is also taking on the mantle of T - level denier . We have 18 T - levels ; we have , as I mentioned , a 90.5 % pass rate ; we have 10,000 students doing our T - level programme ; and we expect the data that we will release early next year to show that many thousands more students are doing the T - level programme . I am very proud of our T - level programme . I know that the hon . Lady will be eating mince pies at Christmas , but I suggest that early next year she may be eating humble pie , because our T - level programme is something to be proud of . In October , the Government announced the allocation of £ 289 million of start - up funding to local authorities for wraparound care , which we know supports parents to work , as well as having the potential to improve attainment , engagement and attendance . We are investing £ 2.6 billion to transform the special educational needs and alternative provision system . That has included a 36 % increase in funding to Birmingham , where the timeliness of EHCPs has been getting better each year between 2020 and 2022 . As I said to the hon . Lady , we have something like 689,000 international students and our target is 600,000 a year . We are working very closely with Sir Steve Smith . We want to diversify to a whole range of different countries to advertise ourselves to international students but , as I say , the trends are good . The hundreds of thousands of international students who are here benefit our economy and provide an important source of income for universities . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ’s question . I am absolutely committed to the target of 600,000 . As I said in response to the previous question , we have surpassed that , with well over 680,000 students . As I say , they are of benefit to our universities and our economy , and they are a very important source of income for all our higher education institutions .