According to Keep Britain Tidy , littering and fly - tipping cost the country £ 1 million a year . Does my hon . Friend agree that that is money that could go to frontline services , so it is about time we took more stringent measures to change behaviour , along with some good enforcement ? As we have heard , the Bill is broad in scope . Before I turn to the couple of amendments that I support , I want to recognise that the Bill ’s scope is evidenced by the breadth and number of amendments and new clauses . It is worth gently reminding ourselves that a number of the measures were carried over from the Criminal Justice Bill , which sadly fell due to the general election almost a year ago , though there are obviously new clauses and amendments . I hope the Minister is in listening mode , in change mode and is willing to work across the House , and I hope that she accepts some of these amendments , because they would go a long way to further improving this legislation . I have read through the Bill , and much of it goes right to the heart of the communities we seek to serve and represent . There are topics in the Bill that regularly pop up in my inbox and I am sure into colleagues ’ inboxes as well . I want to cover two specific areas . The first is fly - tipping and littering — an issue that I have spoken about on many occasions in this Chamber since I was first elected . I support the amendments and new clauses tabled by the shadow Minister , my hon . Friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . In an intervention earlier , I touched on the cost of littering to the country . I think I said that it was £ 1 million , but I meant £ 1 billion ; I hope that can be firmly corrected , because it is a big difference . The principle is the same — it is money that could go back into our communities — but £ 1 billion spent on managing littering and fly - tipping is a huge amount of money that could otherwise buy a huge amount of services for constituencies up and down the country . I want to start by aligning myself with , and commending the speeches of , my hon . Friends the Members for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . I am proud to stand alongside my colleagues and was proud to listen to what they had to say today . And because of what they had to say today , I have less to say , which will allow more people to speak . I have been sent here by my constituents to defend and further their right to safe and illegal abortion . My inbox has been inundated with messages from constituents who are concerned , and who want to be able to have safe and legal abortions . They want to be removed from the criminal justice system , as my hon . Friend the Member for Gower said , because we have situations where clinically vulnerable women , who have gone through some of the worst experiences that anybody can go through , will in some cases be arrested straight from the hospital ward , hurried to cells and made to feel unmitigated levels of shame and guilt , on top of the physical and mental traumas they have already experienced .