It is a delight to welcome you to your new position , Madam Deputy Speaker , which I am sure you will fill with great aplomb , as you have done other positions that I have seen you in over the past few years in this House . I congratulate the hon . Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) on her maiden speech . It was very interesting to hear about her background in the charity sector . Her tribute to former Members who were inspirations to her and who have passed away was very moving . I know in what high regard Tessa Jowell was held , particularly by those on the Labour Benches . It was also very nice to hear her tribute to Peter Aldous . He is a calm and quiet man in some ways , but he is also a very kind man who really did stand up for his constituents on many of the important issues that she mentioned . He will be missed by those on the Conservative Benches . One of the first things that I did when I was a new Member was try to speak to constituency neighbours from other parties . Those conversations can be incredibly helpful and revealing , and can ensure that you work together on local issues that should really transcend party lines . I spoke just yesterday with the hon . Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , who has taken an area of my former constituency . I hope the hon . Lady does that , and takes advantage of the all - party parliamentary groups . One of my best baptisms was with the hon . Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who was superb on the APPG for gambling - related harm . We worked together cross - party with MPs from Northern Ireland , the Liberal Democrats and the SNP , so I urge the hon . Member for Lowestoft to delve into the APPGs . She gave a fantastic maiden speech . Thank you very much for calling me to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to touch on a couple of points that have been raised already , and then touch on a few local issues for my constituents , as well as making slight mention of a couple of national issues . The previous Government ’s record is clear . We started with 7 % of our electricity coming from renewable sources and ended with 50 % . That was a good move for the long - term interests of the country . However , as the Committee on Climate Change says , and as I mentioned in an intervention , there will still be a need for oil and gas in the long term in our country . There is a manufacturing base for delivering that , which often works symbiotically with our manufacturing base for new offshore wind . I really hope that the Government think about and recognise that . When it comes to our energy security , I do not want our country at the mercy of foreign powers . I urge them to really think about the impact that not pressing ahead with new oil and gas in the North sea is having on constituencies , particularly in the energy heart of our country , around Aberdeenshire in Scotland . We will require it , so I think that is a mistake . I sort of understand politically why they might have gone for that , but I really urge them to think again in the national interest . Since 2010 , there has been over £ 300 billion of investment in our energy sector from the private sector . Whatever we do , it will be private sector - led . The relatively small investment figures that the Government have been talking about has been reflected on . I just urge them to ensure that whatever happens is private sector - led , and delivers the really good long - term jobs and growth for the country that we have been talking about and have secured over the last few years . I want to pick up on a few things that the Government have said . My right hon . Friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) mentioned the £ 300 a year , but the Minister did not cover that . Could he provide clarity on that issue ? It is something that constituents up and down the country will think about . The Minister talked about community - owned energy companies similar to Great British Energy . There have been experiences of that ; there was Robin Hood Energy in Nottingham , which ended up costing taxpayers a huge amount of money in the long term . I am interested to know whether the Government are investing in the bits that the private sector will not invest in . How can they guarantee the returns that the Minister is talking about , and how can they guarantee that the policy will not cost taxpayers more in the future ? As a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , I do not want to see , when I look into this in a few years ’ time , that taxpayers were left on the hook when the private sector would not step in . On the overall costs of the net zero plans , in the run - up to the general election , the Labour party dropped its commitment to spending £ 28 billion a year on moving towards the 2030 target . I really could do with clarity from the Government on the figures that they are looking at , given that in the months preceding the general election , shadow Ministers talked about it potentially costing hundreds of billions of pounds to get to that target . As I mentioned in an intervention on the Liberal Democrat Front Bencher , the hon . Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , on energy infrastructure , the impact would be on communities such as Billericay , Bearsted , and Laindon in my constituency , where there would be 160 - foot pylons right down the centre of an area of unspoilt countryside . I really would ask the Government to reflect on that , particularly as Germany is moving to an underground - first approach . If the Germans can do it , I do not see why we can not . It was in the Conservative manifesto .