I am pleased to see the Opposition spokesman give me a willing eye of encouragement , for which I am duly grateful . I start at the beginning . Clause 1 will make it much simpler to determine what law applies to an arbitration agreement . Currently , the rules for identifying the governing law are found in the common law and a recent Supreme Court decision . That decision shows both immense learning and the complexity of the current approach . The Supreme Court was split in its judgment , and its approach was different from that of the Court of Appeal , which used an approach different from that at first instance . Instead , to make the law clearer and more predictable , clause 1 provides that the governing law will align with the legal location — that is , the seat — of the arbitration by default . This will ensure that arbitrations , where seated in England and Wales and Northern Ireland , will be fully supported by our law , which is among the most supportive of arbitration globally . Clause 2 codifies a duty for arbitrators to disclose circumstances that may cause doubts as to their impartiality . This will codify the common law and align domestic law with international best practice , such as the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law model law , which our expert lawyers had a major hand in drafting . The model law ’s influence can be found in other jurisdictions as far apart as Scotland and Switzerland . It will promote trust in arbitration by promoting trust in the integrity and impartiality of arbitrators . Clause 3 and , in the interest of briskness , clause 4 will support arbitrators in making impartial and proper decisions by extending their immunity against liability when they resign for good reason or are removed for no fault of their own . This will support arbitrators to make robust and impartial decisions without fear . Clause 5 clarifies the two pathways for a party that wants to challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitrators — that wants to question whether the dispute should be arbitrated at all . The party can either apply to the court for an early ruling , or it can wait until the award is issued and then go to court . Clause 5 clarifies that it can not do both . It is either / or . Clause 6 ensures that , where arbitrators agree that they should not be hearing a dispute after all , they can still award the costs incurred up to that point against the party that generated those costs . Clause 7 will allow arbitrators to adopt expedited procedures to dispense with issues that have no real prospect of success . This aligns with summary judgments available in court proceedings and will make arbitrations more efficient . We move seamlessly to clause 8 , which will help emergency arbitrators . Emergency arbitrators are appointed on a temporary basis while a full tribunal is being established — that process can sometimes take weeks . They are , therefore , very important to arbitrations . They are often tasked with vital preliminary matters , such as preserving evidence or assets , and are important to ensuring that arbitrations can proceed smoothly . As the practice of emergency arbitrators post - dates the 1996 Act , our framework did not make explicit provision for them , so looking again gives us an opportunity to examine their role . Clause 8 empowers emergency arbitrators to handle urgent matters better and ensure compliance with their directions by equipping them with final orders and court enforcement . That will give emergency arbitrators the same pathways to enforce their orders as other arbitrators , and will enhance their effectiveness . Clause 9 provides that court orders made in support of arbitral proceedings can be made against third parties , which aligns with the position in court proceedings . For example , it would enable a party to arbitration to get an order freezing assets held by a third party , such as a bank . Clause 10 ensures that when a party challenges an arbitral award at court , the court has the full range of remedies available , regardless of the pathway . This clause irons out discrepancies that courts and practitioners have otherwise sought to work around . Clause 11 provides more efficient court challenges to the tribunals jurisdiction through rules of court that would prohibit repeating evidence and arguments already debated in front of the tribunal . That will avoid such challenges becoming full re - hearings , reducing costs and delays . I can deal with clause 12 pretty quickly , you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker . Clause 12 ensures that the time limit for challenging awards is consistent across the Act . Clause 13 corrects a rare example of a drafting error . What the Act meant to say was that court orders could be appealed , but in some cases there would be restrictions . What it actually said was that court orders could be appealed only where there were restrictions . To its credit , the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords spotted this error and interpreted the statute as it was meant to be read . We have taken this opportunity to correct the drafting to reflect the judicial ruling , as a useful bit of tidying up . Clause 14 streamlines the requirements for applying to court to obtain preliminary rulings from the court on questions of law , or on whether the arbitrators have jurisdiction to hear the dispute . Early rulings , such as those from expert judges , can save time and cost . I am getting towards the end of going through the clauses . In fact , I have come to the last and final clause that I wish to comment upon , clause 15 , as you had probably worked out , Madam Deputy Speaker , because that usually comes after clause 14 . [ Laughter . ] There is no clause 16 , so clause 15 is the final clause . Clause 15 repeals provisions that were never brought into force , simply to tidy up the Act . Those provisions would have meant slight differences in approach between domestic arbitrations and international arbitrations . In the event , they were never used or needed , never brought into force and there remains no demand for them . Our arbitration law is first class and applies equally to domestic and international arbitrations , so removing the provisions is a helpful way to tidy things up . In sum , the Bill will greatly approve the arbitral process in our jurisdiction and further cement our position as a top global business destination , where legal disputes can be resolved fairly and quickly . The Bill has already gone through the other place , where it received considerable examination and support from noble and learned Members , including many experienced arbitrators . There are , apparently , a lot of experienced arbitrators in the other place , and they brought their knowledge , experience and expertise to the debate , for which we are very grateful . Indeed , I emphasise that the Bill has been reviewed by Members of the other place not once , but twice . The first time , scrutiny was provided by a Committee , led by the noble and learned Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd , that took further evidence from expert stakeholders . The several technical improvements made to the previous Bill because of that work are retained in this Bill . This time , the Bill was reviewed on the Floor of the other place , where the Government amended clause 13 to fix a long - standing error in our framework on arbitral appeals . I have been quite thorough in covering the ground . I hope all Members feel they have got a good understanding of the issues behind the Bill and why we need to take the steps that I am urging the whole House to take . To conclude , I second the remarks made by Lord Thomas on Third Reading : “ We must find a means of doing this very rapidly , as we must keep English law — I say English law deliberately — attractive and at the forefront of use internationally , for the benefit of our whole economy . ” — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c. 1499 . ] I hope the House agrees , and will give the Bill a Second Reading .