It is a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour the hon . Member for Reading Central ( Matt Rodda ) . I can confirm that Reading is an excellent place to do shopping ; it is a vibrant city with excellent restaurants and an important regional hospital . I am disappointed that the hospital will not be rebuilt until the 2040s , but we will , like all constituency MPs who circle the Royal Berkshire hospital , continue to advocate for it . It has been a pleasure to represent over the past year my constituents of Henley and Thame . It has been pleasing to back some local campaigns , but also to learn some of the national significance that those campaigns have , and I would like to speak to two of them . In my hometown of Henley , I have been campaigning to get Marsh Lock horse bridge reopened since it closed over three years ago . There had been a record of inaction , and when I became the MP , I immediately wrote to Ministers , the Environment Agency , Thames Path national trail and many other organisations — basically , anyone who would listen . I am pleased that that work has made progress . In doing that work , I have discovered a lot more about the state of our infrastructure on our rivers — that is , locks , weirs and bridges . We all know the state of infrastructure when it comes to education , health and our roads , but lesser known is the poor state of our locks , weirs and bridges . They are essential infrastructure for river navigation and safety on the river , and if we did not have them , my hometown of Henley pretty much would not exist and would not have a river running through it — or at least there would not be any water in it . I would like to highlight that situation and call on Ministers to continue looking at how additional funding can be raised for the Environment Agency and its vital work there . The second campaign I have been focusing on is the Thame to Haddenham greenway . Thame and the village of Haddenham are just three miles apart . Haddenham has the train station , and Thame is the major town with shops , schools and many facilities . The two are not connected by an off - road greenway capable of taking active travel . I have been campaigning alongside residents to get that going . That is why I introduced an amendment on compulsory purchase orders to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . As we know , compulsory purchase orders are readily used for road projects , but they are difficult to use for active travel projects . That is why I called for Government guidance on that . Unfortunately , my amendment was not successful , but I am pleased that Active Travel England will bring forward guidance , including two case studies on how other councils have successfully used CPOs . I am grateful to the Government for pushing that forward . A cycleway between Goring and Wallingford would also benefit my community . Again , I hope that the Government will continue to invest in active travel . I will touch briefly on another issue that I have been campaigning on : the lack of ADHD services in Oxfordshire . With no adult service commissioned for annual reviews by a specialist , once someone with ADHD who is well controlled on medication reaches the one - year limit , as required by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidelines , GPs are removing prescriptions from them . That is an absolutely scandalous and very dangerous situation for people with ADHD . I urge the Government to move quickly in their task of implementing the recommendations of the forthcoming taskforce publication , to ensure that we are properly treating and looking after people with ADHD . In my remaining time , I will mention some of the excellent organisations that I have had the pleasure of meeting , including the Men ’s Shed in Peppard ; the Sharing Life Trust in Thame , which does excellent work as a food bank ; the River Tame Conservation Trust ; the Riverside Counselling Service ; and the Henley YMCA . Like many first - time MPs who spent their summer recruiting officers and doing a lot of admin , I am very much looking forward to this recess , as I am sure all Members are . But rest assured that I and my Lib Dem colleagues will be back in September to continue holding the Government and the official Opposition to account , and I look forward —