It is a great privilege to be called to make my maiden speech in this most important debate , and it is an honour to represent the people of Amber Valley in this House . I am proud to be part of a Government with five missions , but my sixth mission is to put Amber Valley firmly on the map . Any Members who have had the misfortune to sit with me in the Tea Room will know exactly where Amber Valley is , because it is my practice to suffix its name with “ in Derbyshire ” . In fact , Amber Valley is known as the heart of Derbyshire , and deservedly so , because not only is it right in the middle of our wonderful county , but its people have the biggest hearts . They are among the most friendly people in the world , but they are also unyielding . It is no surprise that they are descendants of those involved in the last revolution in England , the Pentrich revolution of 1817 , during which a group of constituents plotted an armed uprising , angry about the state of the economy and demanding parliamentary reform . Hon . Members will understand my relief at being part of a Government who are committed to making people better off and reforming the House of Lords . Originally a mining area , the local economy has since developed a diverse industrial base . I am delighted we are driving forward our industrial strategy , so that businesses such as those headquartered in Amber Valley can thrive . Firms such as Thorntons Chocolates , Denby Pottery , Bowmer and Kirkland , Berry Recycling , National Gas and David Nieper provide employment . The last of those companies lends its name to a school in Alfreton , which it oversees . That is a fine example of business supporting the local community . The school ’s ethos is to ensure children can raise their aspirations , breaking down the barriers to opportunity . That is so important for our young people in Amber Valley . Youth services have been cut back , and the gap that has been left is filled by the hard work and dedication of local people , such as James at Ayup in Alfreton , and Chrissie and Mikey at Old Farm Bus in Ripley Marehay . I am the fourth MP for Amber Valley . The first , Phillip Oppenheim , is credited for having brought the mojito to the UK . I can not promise to do anything so exciting when I leave this place , beyond perhaps sampling one or two of those in our new bar in Alfreton . It is aptly named the Moot Bar , by virtue of its overlooking the marketplace , where moot hearings , which are believed to have led to the modern day jury system , were held to settle disputes and try offenders . It is a fitting place for a former Crown prosecutor such as myself to frequent . The second MP was Judy Mallaber , of my party , who still makes a huge contribution to our community . Judy worked hard for the introduction of the minimum wage . I am delighted this Government are building on that legacy , increasing the national living wage and introducing the biggest improvement of workers ’ rights in a generation . Most recently , Amber Valley was represented by Nigel Mills . Nigel is a thoroughly decent man , who served as a dedicated constituency MP for 14 years . He is rightly proud of being the longest serving MP for Amber Valley . I wish him well . We have heard mention in many maiden speeches of firsts — the first female MP , the first MP for a new constituency and even the first MP with a beard . In that spirit , I found myself looking for mine . Could I be the first Crown prosecutor to enter Parliament ? Rumour has it that someone has beaten me to that particular accolade . I am relieved that you are in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I also found myself googling whether I am the first MP named Linsey . I hope that does not affect my chances of Mr Speaker calling me in the future . I am , however , the first Amber Valley MP to have been born in the constituency — technically . I was born in Ilkeston , a town now in neighbouring Erewash , but at the time Ilkeston was a constituency with my three towns , so I was technically born in the constituency , but perhaps that is a lawyer ’s argument . The Labour party was formed to give ordinary people a voice and to improve lives . My dad is David Farnsworth and he would say that he is an ordinary man . He also has a catchphrase : “ Let me tell you a little tale . ” To coin his catchphrase , I would like to tell the House a little tale about the Labour party through the life of that so - called ordinary man . There has been much debate about what a working person is , but I know it when I see it : it is my dad . Originally a coalminer , like so many others he went into the dark so that his children ’s lights would shine . I am pleased the Government are returning the pension fund to miners such as my dad and the 772 former mineworkers in Amber Valley . Righting that wrong was a manifesto commitment — and we are keeping our promises . Our lives changed when I was 12 and my mum Margaret was diagnosed with cancer . She was one of the most caring people , always putting others first . Her late diagnosis was a result of her not wanting to be a burden on our already overstretched NHS . She died less than two months later . I do not want any family in Amber Valley to go through that . This Government will get our NHS back on its feet — we must . After my mum died and the pits closed , my dad was out of work . The Labour Government gave him the opportunity to retrain as a bricklayer . He attended what was then South East Derbyshire College in Heanor , in a beautiful Victorian building . Long since closed and left derelict , it is now being refurbished and will house small businesses and provide community space . Together with the newly renovated marketplace , the Labour - controlled borough council is ensuring that Heanor town centre will be a welcoming place for residents to visit , while boosting our local economy . My dad went on to build hundreds of houses and , had he not retired , I am sure he would be building his fair share of the 1.5 million homes that we have promised to provide within this Parliament . My dad would say that he is an ordinary man . I say “ would say ” because he can not any more . Dementia has taken his voice . My wonderful stepmum Kate cares for him . She is one of the 5.2 million unpaid carers in the UK . I am glad that this Government are improving carer ’s allowance , but we must go further and create a national care service . My dad would say that he is an ordinary man . I say that he is extraordinary , for it is his values and guidance that have led me to this place . My upbringing instilled in me a drive — a drive to make society fairer . That led me to serve as a Crown prosecutor for 21 years , working to secure justice for victims . It was , until my election to this place , the greatest honour of my life . I intend to continue to fight for justice , to fight for those suffering injustice and to use my voice for the people of Amber Valley . My goal to combat injustice extends particularly to the people of Ukraine . I visited Ukraine in September with fellow Labour MPs . We saw the human suffering of war : the homes destroyed , the children ’s cardiology hospital bombed while young children were on the operating table , the cellar of a school where civilians were held captive by Russian troops in the most appalling conditions . Ukraine is defending herself , but she is also defending us , our values and our freedoms . We must do everything we can to support Ukraine both now and for the rebuild after the conflict is over , and I fully support the Bill . We must deliver on our promises to rebuild trust in politics and show that it can be a force for good . My children have given me the affectionate nickname , “ the vicious dictator ” . I am not sure whether I am best placed to lead on this , but I shall try . I promise , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my home is not a dictatorship , but it can be seen through a political lens . My eldest son once made a placard at bedtime with the slogan , “ We want another story and we want it now ” . He was a strong campaigner even at the tender age of 10 — he is now 17 . My youngest son is an effective lobbyist , as his collection of trainers will attest . My stepdaughter is chief whip , managing to bring together the boys even in the most challenging of debates . My brilliant husband Martin makes a wonderful Speaker of our House , keeping order and holding it all together . We all know that politics is all - consuming and hugely onerous on families . The love , understanding and support that Martin and our children have given me has been integral to my being in this place . No maiden speech for Amber Valley would be complete without mentioning Butterley Engineering , around which the town of Ripley was founded . Sadly no longer open , it leaves behind a blast furnace wall and an underground wharf , both now scheduled monuments . Friends of Butterley Ironworks Trust are hoping to turn this heritage into good use with a visitors ’ centre . I will happily support them with that . Butterley Ironworks may be gone , but there is a reminder for me twice weekly , as I walk under the iron arches in St Pancras train station and pass the sign that reads , “ Manufactured by the Butterley Company , Derbyshire , 1867 ” . The majesty of those iron arches is a constant link between representing Amber Valley in this place and the people responsible for sending me here , who I thank greatly and promise to serve in the spirit of the Amber Valley motto , “ Per laborem progredimur”—"We progress through hard work ” .