I am pleased to be able to respond to this vital debate , which in both tone and importance has been one of the best I have heard in my two years in this place . I also add my thanks to the right hon . Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for bringing forward the Opposition day motion today , because this issue is clearly of concern to many Members , and they are right to be concerned . The right hon . Member is one of many right hon . and hon . Members to have made important contributions and spoken with great passion on this crucial issue . The hon . Members for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , the hon . Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , my hon . Friends the Members for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , the hon . Members for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) and for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and others rightly spoke about the important role that millions of family carers play in providing support for disabled or elderly relatives who need care at home . I echo those comments and add my own tribute to all family carers . Much of their tireless work goes unseen and unrecognised . Like other Members , I am privileged to witness glimpses of carers ’ dedication through my correspondence and through events I attend in my constituency . Running through today ’s debate was an underlying and understandable anger at the position we inherited from the last Government , whereby family carers trying to do the right thing have been left with staggering overpayments , often running into thousands of pounds . As my hon . Friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) set out earlier , we are making sure that we understand precisely what has gone wrong so that we can put the system right for the long term . Our family carers deserve no less . Many Members , including the hon . Members for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) and for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , my hon . Friends the Members for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and the hon . Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , and of course my hon . Friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and the right hon . Member for Kingston and Surbiton , spoke about their own experiences as carers or the work they do locally to support organisations helping family carers . I grew up watching my grandmother care for my grandad , struggling with Parkinson ’s disease , before later seeing my mum , one of the many hidden carers up and down the land , care for her mother — my nana — in her final years battling Alzheimer ’s disease . None of us in this House is blind to the work that carers do . They are fortunate to have some wonderful advocates . Those include their MPs , as we have seen today , but also organisations such as Carers UK , the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , to name but three . The Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . Friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I have already met a delegation of carers and Carers UK , and he will be doing so again shortly . He will also meet separately with the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , because we are determined to ensure that the voices of family carers and the organisations supporting them are at the heart of everything we do . I also want to pay tribute to the hundreds of DWP staff , largely based in the north - west , who provide financial support to a million family carers through carer ’s allowance , day in , day out . The Government will spend record amounts to support unpaid carers . Real - terms expenditure on carer ’s allowance is forecast to rise from £ 4.2 billion in 2024 - 25 to just over £ 4.7 billion a year by 2028 - 29 . I turn to some of the other points raised during the debate , with apologies that time will permit me to address only some of them . Let me take the opportunity to congratulate and pay tribute to my hon . Friends the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and the hon . Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) on their excellent maiden speeches . They painted vivid pictures of their constituencies and I feel certain that they will go on to make significant contributions in this place . On the wider points , I will begin with the question of the adequacy of carer ’s allowance , set as it is at £ 151 per week . Carer ’s allowance will be increased in April 2025 by the consumer prices index to help ensure that it maintains its value . As well as carer ’s allowance , carers in low - income households can claim income - related benefits such as universal credit and pension credit . Those can be paid to carers at a higher rate than to those without caring responsibilities through the carer element and the additional amount for carers respectively . For example , over 750,000 carer households on universal credit can already receive an additional £ 2,400 a year through the carer element . That said , the House should be aware that issues beyond the scope of the independent review announced today are not being ignored ; this is merely a first step towards progress . The Government are also looking at the broader question of how to provide the best possible support for family carers , although I do not want to pre - empt that work today . Let me turn to the question of a taper , which was raised by a number of right hon . and hon . Members . At the moment , introducing a taper in carer ’s allowance would significantly complicate the benefit , with awards having to be adjusted manually on a weekly basis for some of those declaring earnings . That would add to administrative costs and could mean more fraud and error . Those also receiving universal credit would need to have that adjusted if their payment of carer ’s allowance changed because of an earnings taper rate . A taper could be introduced only following significant changes to the IT system that supports payment of carer ’s allowance . For the moment , therefore , it is not possible . On the potential writing off of overpayments , which was at the heart of many of the excellent contributions that we heard , an overpayment can occur through fraud , or through claimant or official error . The Secretary of State has an obligation to protect public funds and ensure that , wherever possible , overpayments are recovered , but determining what best we can do to support those who have accrued overpayments is within the scope of the independent review , as is how such overpayments occurred and what we can do to ensure that we take all the steps we can to reduce the risk of such incidents happening again . Let me turn briefly to the comments of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . He listed the many interventions that the last Government supposedly made to improve the lot of carers — seemingly including the private Member ’s Bill of the hon . Member for North East Fife — but after 14 years of Conservative government , we see carers who find themselves in heartbreaking situations having racked up huge overpayments . However , the right hon . Gentleman correctly set out the incredibly complex nature of the carer ’s allowance system , with allowances for legitimate expenses , pension contributions and so on , and why resolving this matter is therefore not straightforward . That is why the independent review is the correct mechanism and next step to fully understand what went wrong and why , and how we can put things right . I welcome his support for the review . Many colleagues referred to the role that family carers play in easing pressure on the social care system , and indeed in supporting our economy , and they were entirely right to do so . I acknowledge everything that carers do . They are heroes . We appreciate how much society relies on unpaid carers , we recognise the challenges they face and we understand the need for change . Supporting carers is both a moral and an economic imperative , so we will help carers stay in paid work , we are spending record amounts on carer ’s allowance and we will sort out the overpayments scandal we inherited . That is why we have announced the independent review today : so that , together , we can rebuild the trust that has been lost and ensure that those who offer comfort , dignity and support to the ones they love are given all the help they need in return . I hope right hon . and hon . Members will acknowledge that work today by supporting the Government amendment . Question put ( Standing Order No . 31(2 ) ) , That the original words stand part of the Question .