NHS England has found that creating that environment does not necessarily provide new and better ways of repurposing drugs , and that can be done far more efficiently and far less bureaucratically by using local off - label prescribing . We are looking at how we can incentivise researchers and clinical trials to explore repurposing drugs . We are determined to make the NIHR and other funders grasp opportunities to support those proposals . We will help researchers work with industry and clinicians to strengthen the evidence base for new drugs . The NHS is working hard to diagnose and treat cancers on time . There is more to do on early diagnosis and faster treatment , in order to improve patient experience and survival . The NHS is focused on improving diagnostic waiting times , and on providing MRI , CT and other tests to reduce cancer waits , because , as Lord Darzi ’s investigation has shown , we face significant challenges if we are to bring this country ’s cancer survival rates back up to the standard of the best in the world . We know that the best way to improve survival for those with brain tumours , and with all cancers , is to diagnose patients early and treat them quickly . In our first six months , 80,000 more patients received a diagnosis or an all - clear within 28 days than did in the previous year , thanks to investment in cutting NHS waiting lists . In March , more than 80 % of patients in England referred for cancer had it ruled out or diagnosed within 28 days — it is the first time that target has been met in years — but we must go further , and we will . Our reforms to cancer care will see more than 100,000 people diagnosed faster , and thousands more starting treatment within two months across the NHS . There is no single solution to this complex challenge . That is why my right hon . Friend , the Secretary of State , has been clear that there will be a national cancer plan published later this year . This plan will ensure that rarer cancers , including brain cancers , will not be left behind . It is my absolute privilege , as a person with cancer , to be driving that cancer plan . I am delighted that we have so far received more than 11,000 representations as part of the call for evidence . I can assure my hon . Friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden that her contributions and all others will be taken seriously . The Liberal Democrat spokesperson also talked about low - grade cancers . There is a difference between staging and grading , and it is important that we are clear about that . Low - grade brain tumours are considered non - cancerous , and they grow more slowly and are less likely to spread , but although low - grade brain tumours are generally non - cancerous , they can have similar serious symptoms , and require surgery or radiotherapy to treat them . The Government are investing in new life - saving and life - improving research to support people diagnosed with those cancers . In closing , for those affected by this devastating disease , every discovery , every treatment and every moment matters . We recognise that more needs to be done to stimulate high - quality , high - impact research into brain tumours . Through our targeted package of support , that is what we will do . We completely understand the strength of feeling on this issue , not least because three Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care are cancer survivors . We know how terrifying it is to receive a diagnosis . We have sat in waiting rooms , hoping for good news and fearing the worst — and we have heard the worst . We have had those difficult conversations with our loved ones and seen the devastating impact on their lives . That is why we are committed to making a real difference for patients with brain cancer . We will leave no stone unturned until they get the first - class care that they deserve . I look forward to further discussing how we can achieve this when I meet members of the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumours next week .