Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology The Secretary of State was asked — Internet Connectivity What recent steps her Department has taken to improve internet connectivity . What recent steps her Department has taken to improve internet connectivity . What recent steps her Department has taken to improve internet connectivity . More than 82 % of UK premises can now access gigabit - capable broadband , up from just 6 % in January 2019 . The National Infrastructure Commission recently reported that we are on track to meet our target of 85 % gigabit coverage by 2025 . Through Project Gigabit , we have already signed 31 contracts , with another this week , to bring fast , reliable connectivity to hard - to - reach communities across the UK . We have also created an attractive pro - competition environment to build networks in this country . Investment in fixed networks increased by 40 % in real terms from 2019 to 2022 , with more than 100 providers rolling out gigabit broadband across the UK . I very much welcome the Minister ’s response , but does she agree that we need to ensure that we do not create a new digital divide where only parts of certain communities are upgraded , depending on where they are situated and where they are connected to the telecom box ? This is causing a lot of concern in my constituency , where a continuing digital divide is being created . Making sure that we do not have a digital divide is at the heart of Project Gigabit . By the time the programme is over , 99 % of premises in our country will have gigabit - capable coverage , but during the roll - out process some will get that coverage sooner than others . We just had a new contract signed for Yorkshire , which will cover 3,400 premises in my hon . Friend ’s constituency . He is right that we must ensure that premises between the commercial roll - out and the contract roll - out from Project Gigabit are not left out . Fast internet connections are just as important in rural areas such as Broadland and Fakenham as they are in the rest of the country . I welcome the Government ’s gigabit project . In Norfolk , it is rolling out 62,000 new connections and unlocking another 45,000 from the commercial sector , but will the Minister explain why it is taking so long and how we can accelerate the project even more ? We are rolling out gigabit networks faster than any EU country . I understand that the east of England has had particular connectivity challenges , which is why four contracts are being rolled out across that part of the country . As my hon . Friend said , there are 62,000 premises in Norfolk , 8,000 of which will be in his constituency . As chair of the all - party parliamentary group on broadband and digital communication , I am pleased that the number of premises with access to gigabit - capable broadband in my constituency has increased from 3 % in 2019 to 54 % as of March . What more can my hon . Friend do to address the shortfall in coverage in the hardest - to - reach areas , and to expedite those awaiting a type C procurement contract , to ensure that we promote universal coverage across the UK ? My hon . Friend has probably been one of the strongest and toughest broadband champions in this House . I think of her and my hon . Friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) always when I have meetings with Building Digital UK . Let me reassure her that we are making very good progress on type C. We have named a preferred supplier for that contract and we hope to have a lot more news on that soon , which will be of interest to people across the country , particularly those in her constituency . Hull already has high superfast broadband , and although we welcome competition , we do not welcome broadband poles being put up all across the constituency . What can the Minister do to force companies to share their infrastructure and stop the blight of ever - increasing numbers of poles appearing up and down our streets ? I have met the hon . Lady about this issue , and I have made representations to KCOM and Connexin , the companies involved in her neck of the woods . I believe that productive talks are under way between them , overseen by Ofcom . We hope that a lot more progress will be made , and that network roll - outs will be paused when there seems to be overbuild . In Wellingborough and Rushden , organisations such as Serve and the Teamwork Trust offer digital support for the excluded , but for low - income households , access to the internet through libraries and schools is a key tool for employment and betterment . In rural towns such as mine , what is the Department doing to ensure that low - income households have access to digital services ? I thank the hon . Lady for her interest . She is right that it is important to ensure that every person in the country can be connected . That is why we have encouraged social tariffs , which have been rolled out by a large number of operators . Constituents of hers who are on benefits will be able to access those . They cost from £ 10 a month , bringing cheap connectivity to everybody . I call the shadow Minister . For rural businesses , internet connectivity is essential . As we move into the summer , that will be the case for many tourism businesses . Sales can be lost and repeat business not return if tills and card machines do not work because of unreliable 4 G and the internet going down . Very often , businesses suffer and do not see many sales . The National Audit Office recently said that the Government ’s shared rural network programme is , like everything else , behind schedule . What message does the Minister have for businesses that will struggle to keep going this summer with no internet connection or poor broadband speeds ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his question , but that is not a true representation of what the NAO said about the shared rural network . We are making very good progress and hope soon to be able to share very good coverage maps showing the progress made . On the roll - out of gigabit , he may be interested to know that the Welsh Government made representations to us about bringing it in - house , because we were making much better progress in England than they were in Wales . I am very pleased to say that ever since we took it in - house , we have had amazing progress on gigabit roll - out in Wales . STEM Workforce : Diversity and Inclusion What steps her Department is taking to help increase diversity and inclusion in the STEM workforce . What steps her Department is taking to help increase diversity and inclusion in the STEM workforce . The science and technology framework sets out our commitment to expanding STEM — science , technology , engineering and maths — opportunities to the most diverse range of people possible . We have acted swiftly to identify and dismantle any barriers to entry . As a result , we have seen major improvements in recent years , although there is always more to do . Today is National Numeracy Day . In my constituency , which is one of the poorest , all seven wards fall into the lowest numeracy ranking in the UK . What is the Minister doing to ensure that people in constituencies like mine are not locked out of jobs in STEM by a skills gap that does not recognise the disadvantages they face ? The hon . Lady raises a very important point on National Numeracy Day . While we must not be complacent , the Government have made outstanding progress on equality for all . I hope she will join me in congratulating teachers in her constituency , and up and down the country , on the fact that last year , under this Government , girls made up 52%—a majority — of all science entries at A - level . The Institute of Cancer Research has made positive steps on diversifying representation in STEM through its apprenticeship scheme . Can the Minister say what , if any , lessons he is taking from that very positive initiative , in particular to increase representation in respect of ethnic diversity ? I congratulate the Institute of Cancer Research on that progress . I would be delighted to meet the institute and hear what development it is making , as would my hon . Friends . This Government have increased the number of apprenticeships . Unfortunately , under the Opposition ’s proposals the number of apprenticeships would halve . Inclusion and diversity in STEM will be greatly increased and helped by the £ 6 million that Sir James Dyson has recently given to Malmesbury Primary School in my constituency , as well as by the STEM college he has locally . He has made it plain that it is available to all and that he intends to make sure that everyone in the town of Malmesbury and the surrounding area benefits from it . I commend my hon . Friend and Sir James Dyson for that initiative . It would be wonderful to see many more such initiatives across the whole country . My colleagues and I would be delighted to work with any philanthropists seeking to do something similar . On National Numeracy Day , will my hon . Friend take the opportunity to praise the work of universities , such as the University of Birmingham , Imperial College London and Loughborough University , that go out of their way to attract women on to engineering courses ? We are enormously blessed in this country with the quality of our universities , so many of which , together with the firms that sponsor undergraduate and postgraduate research , are making magnificent efforts in the important area of diversity in STEM . I call the shadow Minister . The Secretary of State says she wants to ensure that “ brilliant people can contribute and succeed , irrespective of their background . ” That is only right , but given that only 16 % of practising engineers are women , it is like trying to play premiership football with half our players barred from the pitch . Can the Minister explain why not one of his major science strategies — the life sciences vision , the national AI strategy , and the UK science and technology framework — features an equality impact assessment ? We have no idea whether those strategies are helping to break down barriers or not . The Secretary of State ’s war on woke has so far cost the taxpayer tens of thousands of pounds and delivered only damage limitation . Why can the Minister not fight for our scientists and engineers instead ? As the hon . Lady well knows , diversity , STEM education and skills are at the heart of the UK science and technology framework , and we will be publishing skills frameworks for each of its priority areas . Life Sciences Manufacturing What steps her Department is taking to support the life sciences manufacturing sector . The Government could not be more committed to supporting our valued life sciences sector , which , in the financial year ending 2022 , contributed well over £ 100 billion in turnover to the UK economy and employed more than 300,000 people . As the Minister will know , there is a shortage of laboratory space and clinical trials in the UK , and companies such as Precision Health Technologies Accelerator in Birmingham , led by the excellent Professor Gino Martini , want to be part of the solution to the problem . What help can the Government give businesses of that kind so that we can increase the number of clinical trials to help the advancement of lifesaving medicines ? My hon . Friend is right : such is the growth of this important sector that we need more lab space quickly . I personally benefited from the advice of Professor Martini in the life sciences real estate working group . Precision Health Technologies Accelerator does some amazing work in my hon . Friend ’s constituency to knock down barriers to building , many of which are sadly the fault of Labour councils . Dementia and Alzheimer ’s disease remain the largest cause of death in the United Kingdom . The Government pledged in 2019 to fund dementia research . What more is the Minister doing to ensure that we have early diagnosis , access to trials and support for life sciences to transform dementia outcomes ? Dementia is a crippling disease for so many people , and will touch so many people ’s lives . The Health Secretary and I recently hosted the heads of the Dementia Mission at No . 10 Downing Street to announce more funding , and I should be happy to meet the hon . Member and any representatives of dementia organisations in his constituency . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . A facility that would allow the production of good manufacturing practice phages would be an asset to many companies working in the field , and would play a key part in tackling antimicrobial resistance . What consideration has been given to repurposing the Rosalind Franklin Institute as a GMP facility for phage production rather than selling it off ? The hon . Lady has made some important points . My officials and I have met representatives of the institute and have considered a number of options for it , of which they and , I believe , she will be aware . Productivity What steps she is taking with Cabinet colleagues to ensure that Government - funded research is used to help increase levels of productivity . The Government are providing record levels of taxpayer funding for research , and my right hon . Friend is right to highlight the opportunity to improve productivity . A priority for research councils is to focus on not just discovery but innovation , so that British taxpayers feel the benefits of faster economic growth , rising living standards and better health outcomes . As I saw during a recent visit to Chase Farm Hospital , better digital systems can dramatically improve NHS productivity , and artificial intelligence can contribute to that as well . Will the Government use their science and research budget to increase NHS output , improve outcomes for patients and get waiting lists down ? That is exactly what we are doing . On Monday , the Prime Minister announced £ 15.5 million to roll out artificial intelligence radiotherapy that locates cancer cells two and a half times more quickly , helping to reduce those anxious days for patients and their families who are awaiting a diagnosis . That is affordable only thanks to the fact that our plan for the economy is working . Labour has no plan , and would end up having to cut the research budget . Rural Connectivity What steps her Department is taking to improve rural connectivity . Through Project Gigabit , we have signed 31 contracts to bring lightning - fast broadband to a further 780,000 rural homes and businesses across our country . Gigabit - capable connections are already being made in Barrow and Furness through our investment in Cumbria , and the shared rural network has already delivered substantial improvements in mobile coverage . I thank the Minister for her answer . I am delighted to see that Project Gigabit is delivering for Barrow and Furness : we have Fibrus delivering to the procured areas and companies such as Voneus now delivering to Walney , and there is healthy competition . What consideration has she given to rolling out truly technology - agnostic solutions to make the final mile better connected ? I thank my hon . Friend for his role as rural connectivity champion ; I discussed that role yesterday with the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . Friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) . I am pleased to see that he recently attended a visit to see how the supplier Voneus is investing in a wider solution for premises on Walney island . I assure him that we already take a technology - agnostic approach to our contracts , with some suppliers using wireless connectivity and exploring fixed wireless access and low Earth orbit satellites . Digital Exclusion What steps her Department is taking to help tackle digital exclusion . The Government have been absolutely clear that no one should be left behind in the digital age . Digital inclusion is a cross - cutting issue spanning many different areas . I chair the cross - Whitehall ministerial group for digital inclusion to drive progress and accountability across Government , and we have increased the frequency of our meetings — that is how important we see this issue as being . I regularly meet relevant organisations , including by attending the Centre for Social Justice ’s digital exclusion roundtable and the upcoming meeting of the digital inclusion APPG . Digital inclusion works only when people trust website links . My constituent let me know that by clicking on a dodgy link , he was tricked into making an investment of over £ 108,000 , which turned out to be a scam . The Government ’s latest digital inclusion strategy was written 10 years ago . Does the Minister accept that there are good reasons why many older people want to be able to look somebody in the eye when making investments or doing their banking ? Choice is important , which is why our digital inclusion approach cuts across many Departments . I am sorry to hear the case of the hon . Gentleman ’s constituent . I am happy for him to write to me , and I can talk to him about our national fraud strategy as well . The impact of the digital world on our lives is growing every day , but we do not yet know enough about the consequences for society , democracy or , indeed , our children , because the data held by tech companies is not visible to the Government , regulators , researchers or the public . Will my hon . Friend update the House on measures to open up access to this data , and will he commit Government support for the amendments to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill tabled in the other place by Lord Bethell , which would introduce a “ data for researchers ” scheme ? I thank my hon . Friend for all her campaigning on this and other online safety - related issues ; we have had a number of engagements . The Government said very clearly that we would explore the issue of data access for researchers into online safety during the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 . We are aware of the amendments tabled to the DPDI Bill , and I encourage my hon . Friend to watch this space , as we will be reporting in due course . Animal Testing : Research What steps her Department is taking to help reduce the use of animal testing in research . The day when we are able to eliminate animal testing can not come quickly enough , though we are not there yet . We are committed to supporting the strategy to replace , reduce and refine the use of animals in research , and since taking office I have doubled the investment in non - animal methods of research to £ 20 million this year . The reduction and ultimate ending of the need to use animals for testing purposes is an important policy objective of my animal - loving constituents in Romford . Does the Minister agree that animals are not laboratory tools but sentient creatures , and that the policy of replacement , reduction and refinement must be at the core of Government policy going forward ? I know that this is an issue close to my hon . Friend ’s heart . He is a great animal lover , and I recall his past work as shadow Minister for animal welfare . This summer we will publish a plan , together with colleagues in the Home Office , to accelerate the uptake of non - animal methods of research . Topical Questions If she will make a statement on her departmental responsibilities . This Government have a plan to ensure that technology works for our people , not against them . Right now , the Secretary of State is in South Korea for the AI Seoul summit . She is building on the progress we have made and on the UK ’s leadership at Bletchley Park last year to tackle the risks of artificial intelligence . Whether it is AI , quantum , life sciences or the next generation of advanced telecommunications , we are making the UK a science and tech superpower , backed by the highest ever level of spend on research and development . Our plan is working , and our scientists and entrepreneurs can not afford to go back to square one with Labour . The UK Research and Innovation chief executive has announced that they are stepping down in June next year . The recruitment process normally lasts eight months , yet the Government are speeding up that process . Is that because they are worried about the outcome of a general election ? This Government are focusing on delivery every single day , and I make no apologies for cracking on with the process of making sure that our brilliant research institutions have the finest leadership that the best and brightest in the world deserve . In recent years , Government policies led by the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure have resulted in a big improvement in broadband and mobile connectivity on the Welsh borders , both in my constituency of Clwyd South and across the border in neighbouring North Shropshire , but there are still some poor areas of connectivity . Could the Minister outline what further steps she is taking to ensure that all homes and businesses on both sides of the Welsh border see better broadband and mobile connectivity ? I thank my hon . Friend for his brilliant work on connectivity in the border areas—[Applause . ] As you know , we do not allow clapping , but this is an exception . Please allow me to say welcome back to my hon . Friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . What an appropriate way for the new bionic MP to walk in : on science questions . To answer the question about broadband , my hon . Friend the Member for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) has been a fantastic champion for connectivity on the border . There will be contracts covering North Shropshire and parts of Wales as we get the Type C off the ground , so I hope for better connectivity very soon for his constituents . I call shadow Minister Matt Rodda . It is good to see the hon . Member for South Thanet back in his place . Last year , the UK hosted the AI safety summit and set up the AI Safety Institute . However , since then , developers of frontier AI have refused to share information with the Safety Institute , leaving it toothless . Labour has repeatedly called for binding regulation to support safety . With the Secretary of State discussing the future of AI this week , is it not high time for the Government to finally agree to binding regulation ? I do not agree with that categorisation . The truth is that the Bletchley summit was a world - leading summit . We took a front - foot approach and we are co - hosting the Seoul summit , which is bringing together AI nations , AI companies and top experts in academia and civil society . We have always been clear that we will ensure that our regulators do the job that they need to do , and of course at some point we will legislate . We have a plan , and our plan is working . The Labour party can not tell us what it would legislate for . It does not have a plan . Does the Minister agree that the large sums of taxpayers ’ money channelled to organisations such as the Arts and Humanities Research Council for woke - driven projects should be spent on other high - tech projects such as , for example , the tagging of illegal migrants in this country so that we can quickly locate and deport them , starting in Dudley ? Funding councils must be accountable for their own individual decisions . My hon . Friend no doubt reflects the concern of his constituents , who expect , in return for our record expenditure on research , the discovery of life - saving medicines , or groundbreaking technology ; that is what they expect in return for hard - earned taxpayers ’ money . A representative of the World Economic Forum told the audience at Davos that “ we own the science ” . What steps are the Government taking to ensure that scientific research in the UK is impartial , objective and ethical , regardless of who is funding it ? That is absolutely right . It is intrinsic to the scientific method that research is impartial , and that it is challenged , public , transparent and open . That is always our commitment , but it is also to fully fund research and to turn this country into the science and technology superpower that it deserves to be . Before we begin Prime Minister ’s questions , I am sure the whole House would like to join me in welcoming back our colleague and friend , the inspirational hon . Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . Craig , it is so good to have you back among us . You are the man of the moment . I met your daughter , whose birthday is tomorrow . I say to you and your family that you are an inspiration to the people in this country who have suffered with sepsis . You have shown us the way forward . Thank you for everything—[Applause . ] That is the only time I allow clapping . May I also just mention that we have the Speaker of the Icelandic Parliament and the Premier of the Cayman Islands with us today ? Prime Minister The Prime Minister was asked — Engagements If he will list his official engagements for Wednesday 22 May . I know the whole House will join me in remembering the victims of the horrific Manchester Arena bombing seven years ago today . Our thoughts are with them and their families . I pay tribute to Figen Murray , who joins us in the Gallery , for the courage and bravery of her campaigning in her son Martyn ’s memory . I look forward to meeting her later today . I also add my personal welcome back to Parliament to my friend and colleague , my hon . Friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . No one who watched his interview last night could have failed to be awed by his incredible resilience . This morning , I had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others . In addition to my duties in this House , I shall have further such meetings later today . I , too , welcome the hon . Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) back to the House and wish him well in his duties . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ’s remarks . The Association of Dental Groups , in its May 2022 report , identified my Wellingborough constituency as one of England ’s dental deserts . I welcomed the Prime Minister ’s grand scheme to send dental vans to constituencies like mine but , months on , he is having to U - turn because there are not enough vans . Why can he not address this issue seriously ? That is not right . Actually , thanks to our dental recovery plan , we are delivering 2.5 million more dental appointments . There is a new patient premium and new provision for remote communities , and we know the plan is now delivering because , since it was announced in January , over 500 more dental practices are now accepting new patients . I also point out to the hon . Lady that , compared with her party ’s plan , we are producing more than twice the number of extra appointments to get people the treatment they need . Today ’s news on inflation is good news not just for consumers in Carshalton and Wallington but for capital projects , such as the investment in St Helier Hospital and in building a second hospital in my constituency , protecting A&E and maternity services locally . Given the good news on the economy , will the Prime Minister recommit today to working with the NHS in my area to build that second hospital and improve St Helier Hospital ? And does he agree that we can only underpin a strong NHS with a strong economy ? We are investing in better healthcare right across our country , and I am delighted to see that Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust was recently allocated over £ 6 million to upgrade A&E and will benefit from a new specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton as part of the programme . As my hon . Friend says , that is possible only because of the difficult decisions we have taken to bring inflation back to normal and grow the economy . Today ’s figures show that the plan is working , and I am sure the whole House , perhaps including the Leader of the Opposition , will welcome the news that inflation is now back to normal . We now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I will begin by saying a few words to the hon . Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . First , thank you for meeting me privately this morning with your wife and daughter , so I could personally convey my best wishes to all of you . Secondly , on some occasions — there are not many — this House genuinely comes together as one , and we do so today to pay tribute to your courage and determination in not only coming through an awful ordeal , but being here with us today in this Chamber . Thirdly , I want to acknowledge your deep sense of service . I think politics is about service , and resuming your duties as an MP and being here today is an example to all of us of your deep sense of service , and we thank you for it . I also welcome Figen Murray , who is up in the Gallery , who lost her son Martyn seven years ago today in the Manchester Arena attack . We remember everybody who was lost in that awful attack . She is campaigning for Martyn ’s law , which we must make a reality as soon as possible . The infected blood scandal reflects a profound failure across almost every part of the British state . In our apologies on Monday and on the question of compensation yesterday , this House was united ; however , we have too many times heard similar sentiments from that Dispatch Box and this one . There are many hard yards to go . Does the Prime Minister agree that we will make real progress only if we finally tackle the lack of openness , transparency and candour that Sir Brian Langstaff identified as having prolonged the victims ’ suffering for decades ? The inquiry was established to get to the truth and provide answers , and this week ’s report represents a hugely significant moment for the community . This was an appalling scandal . I am sure the whole House is grateful for the diligent work of all those who have supported Sir Brian Langstaff and the work of the inquiry . I also pay tribute to the bravery of every individual who has come forward and told their story in their fight for justice ; their voices have finally been heard . I agree with the right hon . and learned Gentleman : we will listen to them and ensure that nothing like this can ever happen in our country again . The infected blood scandal is truly shocking , but it is not unique . The story is familiar : concerns raised but ignored ; reports written but not acted on ; victims and their families campaigning for years just to be heard . If I may , I want to focus on the duty of candour — or lack of it — that has been a failing in scandal after scandal and injustice after injustice from Grenfell to Horizon , Hillsborough and now the infected blood scandal . I have read that the Government have called for evidence on the duty of candour in health , but I can not think of a single example where that duty of candour should not apply to all public servants across the board . I do not think it is possible for any of us to stand at these Dispatch Boxes and honestly say “ Never again ” unless we address that . Does the Prime Minister agree that the time has now come for the duty of candour to be clearly enshrined in law across the board ? I am , of course , aware of the recommendation made by Sir Brian Langstaff in the final report of the inquiry on the duties of candour and accountability . Indeed , my right hon . Friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care previously introduced the duty of candour to the health service . It is important that the Government take the time to fully digest the gravity of the report ’s findings . The wrongs that have been committed are devastating and life - altering for so many , and ensuring that nothing like this ever happens again is a priority . We are sympathetic to that , and are going through the recommendations in detail at the moment before providing a comprehensive response . Of course , given the situation and the gravity of the findings , it is a recommendation for which there is an enormous amount of sympathy . I understand that the Prime Minister wants to look at the recommendations in detail and to come back to them in due course , but we can not look away on this duty of candour . Can I ask the Prime Minister at least to expand the call for evidence on the duty of candour beyond health ? We owe it to the victims of Hillsborough and Horizon to work across the House to establish a far - reaching and binding duty of candour as quickly as possible . The right hon . and learned Gentleman will remember that on Monday I said very specifically that the patterns of behaviour we have seen in this appalling tragedy have been replicated in others , and I mentioned Hillsborough specifically , so I am very aware that there are structural and behavioural cultural problems that we need to fix . There is an enormous amount of support and sympathy for the principle of the duty of candour . He will understand that we are digesting the full contents of the report , but of course we want to right the wrongs of the past and , crucially , ensure that nothing like this happens ever again . In his report , Sir Brian identified a number of individual failures , even cover - ups , but alongside that he also found equally important and harder to reach institutional and cultural failings , including in the NHS : a defensive attitude that refused to acknowledge problems , the silencing of those who raised concerns and a total failure of leadership when faced with the truth . The NHS does a remarkable job every day , but those failings are indefensible . Does the Prime Minister agree that the very culture of the NHS needs to change ? Yes , Mr Speaker . I discussed this issue on Monday in my response to the question asked by my right hon . Friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) . The NHS provides lifesaving care to so many people every single day , for which we are enormously grateful , but the report makes it crystal clear that there were significant failings . The NHS failed : it failed people and it let them down . It is right that the NHS is held accountable for that and learns the lessons . There clearly have been improvements and changes in medical practice since that time , but going forward we need to go through the full recommendations of Sir Brian Langstaff ’s report and hold the NHS to account for bringing through the changes that are necessary . We need reform . We need change . I saw at first hand how important reform is during my time running the Crown Prosecution Service , but I also saw how hard it is , particularly on cultural issues . It requires brave and difficult decisions . Eleven years ago , as Health Secretary , the now Chancellor said : “ The era of gagging NHS staff from raising their real worries about patient care must come to an end . ” Eleven years on from that and 10 months on from the Lucy Letby case , there are still clear examples of NHS managers still gagging staff and then being moved on , instead of being moved out . Will the Prime Minister now commit to ensuring that those who gag and silence whistleblowers will no longer be able to work in the NHS ? Of course the behaviour that the right hon . and learned Gentleman describes is wrong and , I believe , already illegal under our laws , but we will ensure people have the ability to raise concerns . One thing that I know has given many of those who have been impacted by the scandal some reassurance is the appointment of Sir Robert Francis to be chair of the inquiry . Obviously he is someone who does not just have a wealth of experience dealing with this particular set of issues , but has a long track record of working with the NHS on the issues that the right hon . and learned Gentleman raises . Sir Brian ’s report is a victory for all those campaigners and victims who fought so hard for this moment , including my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but it is also one of profound pain , anger and sadness for so many . There is a chance for us to make real progress on this issue and we must do that with victims in mind . Given the degree of cross - party consensus that we have already seen on apologies and compensation , and given the Government ’s promise to ensure compensation by the end of the year , will the Prime Minister also now promise to deliver on all the recommendations in the same timeframe , by the end of the year ? Of course we want to deliver on the recommendations as quickly as practically possible . Indeed , our expectation is that we can do that before the end of the year . As I said , Sir Robert ’s appointment will bring a wealth of experience ; it is crucial that the chair has the knowledge , expertise and familiarity with the issues . His support for delivering the scheme and ensuring that compensation can be paid by the end of the year will be invaluable . The right hon . and learned Gentleman talked about the community . Over the next few weeks , Sir Robert will seek views from the infected blood community specifically on the proposed scheme , to ensure the scheme will best serve those it is intended for . Our shared priority is delivering compensation to all those infected and affected with absolutely minimum delay , and begin bringing justice to all of those impacted . In 1997 , the public voted in what they were told would be a sort of continuity Conservative Government — the same policies , but with different faces . Instead what they got was record immigration , constitutional vandalism and a broken economy . Does the Prime Minister agree that , with the economy now roaring back to life under a Conservative Government , the last thing we need is a return to the failed Labour recipe of high taxes , open borders and employment laws that destroy jobs ? My hon . Friend gives a superb and passionate economic diagnosis . He is right : inflation is now back to normal , and , indeed , lower than that of France , Germany and the United States . Inflation is at its lowest level in years , our economy is growing faster and wages are rising , which is why we need to stick to the plan that is working . He is right to point out the risks of what the Labour party proposes : 70 new laws — 70 new laws ! Labour has caved in to its union paymasters , and what does that mean ? It means that it will cost jobs and damage our economic recovery . I call the SNP leader . May I begin by also welcoming the hon . Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) back to the Chamber ? He is indeed an inspiration to all of us . Mr Speaker , speculation is rife , so I think the public deserve a clear answer to a simple question . Does the Prime Minister intend to call a summer general election , or is he feart ? As I have said repeatedly to the right hon . Gentleman , there is — spoiler alert — going to be a general election in the second half of this year . At that moment , the British people will in fact see the truth about the right hon . and learned Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , because that will be the choice at the next election . It will be a party that is not able to say to the country what it would do — a party that would put at risk our hard - earned economic stability — or the Conservatives who are delivering a secure future for our United Kingdom . The Prime Minister continues to play games with the public , so while he does that , let us get back to some serious matters . I was taken aback this week when a former Prime Minister spoke some sense . Alas , it was , indeed , David Cameron . What he said in relation to graduate route visas was that if any restrictions were implemented , it would lead to job losses , university closures and a reduction in research . Universities Scotland outlines that £ 5 billion of economic value is at risk . So , may I ask the Prime Minister : does he agree with the Foreign Secretary ? The Foreign Secretary also said that the levels of legal migration to this country are too high . That is what I also believe , which is why it is right that we are taking decisive action to bring down the numbers . And that plan is working . In the first three months of this year , the visas issued are down by 25 % and migration is on its way to being returned to more sustainable levels . I appreciate that that is a point of difference between the right hon . Gentleman ’s party , and indeed the Labour party , and us . We believe that that level of migration needs to come down to more sustainable levels , so that we ease the pressure on public services . Everyone who comes to our country must contribute economically . That is the migration system that we will deliver . On the Welsh borders , we are incredibly proud of the Veterans ’ Orthopaedic Centre at the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital in north Shropshire , which treats veterans not only locally , including from my constituency of Clwyd South , but from across Britain , as it is the largest hospital - based veterans service in the UK . Will the Prime Minister help resolve the centre ’s current funding crisis , caused by changes in the NHS funding formula last year , given the fantastic treatment provided by Lieutenant Colonel Carl Meyer and his team for our amazing veterans community across the UK ? I thank my hon . Friend for raising that important issue . We are committed to making the UK the best place in the world to be a veteran and to ensuring that they have access to the appropriate physical and mental health support that they deserve . That is why we have rolled out Operation Restore , Op Courage and Op Nova . NHS England has been introducing a suite of health services to work more closely with orthopaedic services . I know that my hon . Friend has raised this issue of funding with the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , who will be writing back to him with an update in due course . I join others in welcoming back to the House the hon . Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . We admire his courage , and send our best wishes to him and his family . I also join others in remembering all the victims of the bombing at the Manchester Arena . Amanda claimed carer ’s allowance when caring for her mother , but the Department for Work and Pensions is now hounding her to pay back £ 1,200 . Karina , whose daughter requires round - the - clock care , has been hit by a bill for £ 11,000 . Victoria is being forced to pay back £ 100 a month . They are just some of the tens of thousands of carers who are victims of the DWP ’s flawed system , punished harshly for going sometimes just a few pounds over the arbitrary earnings limit . Family carers do a remarkable job . They should not be penalised for working , or for the DWP ’s own failures . Does the Prime Minister agree that the Government should be supporting carers , not persecuting them ? The Government recognise the contribution and sacrifices that carers up and down the country so often make to care for others . That is why we have increased carer ’s allowance by almost £ 1,500 since 2010 . It is why we introduced carer ’s leave , and it is why the better care fund funds respite care breaks for carers , which I know have been warmly welcomed and used . In the rare number of cases where individuals have not appropriately informed the DWP about a change in their circumstances , the DWP has then rightly sought to recover overpayments , as it would be expected to in order to ensure the integrity of the system and protect the taxpayer , but of course it will work with anyone who is struggling with their repayment terms , and will always look to negotiate an affordable repayment plan . I , too , welcome back my hon . Friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . The £ 8 billion made available by the Government for the repair of roads and potholes is very welcome ; however , some local authorities , such as Cambridgeshire County Council and Peterborough City Council , which serve my constituency , sometimes use inferior material , so the works need to be done again in a few months ’ time . That is an issue that applies to many constituencies across the country , so will the Prime Minister use his influence to ensure that there are tough quality specifications , so that the repairs can last much longer ? I am proud that we have announced an additional £ 8 billion for roads resurfacing over the next decade — money made available through the reallocation of HS2 funding . That will mean fewer potholes and smoother , safer roads across our country , but I agree with my right hon . Friend that it is of the utmost importance that these repairs are completed with high - quality materials . I join him in calling on Cambridgeshire County Council and Peterborough City Council to make sure that they deliver that for his residents . In the wee small hours of Saturday morning , I received an email — I apologise for the language , Mr Speaker — calling me a “ fucking parasite ” , a “ rat ” , and a “ piece of shit ” . This came in response to my challenging the appropriateness of a US citizen , Michael Franzese , doing a tour in the UK , as part of which he is advocating publicly for the self - proclaimed misogynist influencers Andrew and Tristan Tate , who are encouraging toxic attitudes among young men in this country . The Prime Minister has spoken about banning hate preachers from entering the UK . Will he extend that to misogynists ? Those who seek to divide us , undermine our values , and indeed intimidate and threaten others have no place in our society , and we will not hesitate to use not just the full force of the law but our immigration regime to make sure that we have security and cohesion in this country . The population of Maldon is rising rapidly , and for over 20 years my constituents have been promised a new hospital , yet the Mid and South Essex integrated care board is proposing to close the existing St Peter ’s Hospital without any replacement , leaving my constituents and those of my right hon . Friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) having to travel up to 30 miles for some treatments . Will the Prime Minister ask Ministers to tell the ICB to withdraw this proposal and to commission an independent assessment of how best to provide the quality local health services that my constituents , and those of my right hon . Friend the Member for Witham , deserve ? I commend my right hon . Friend for his commitment to his constituents . I know that he and my right hon . Friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) met both the Minister for Health and Secondary Care and the Minister for Social Care recently to discuss this issue . I understand that the ICB has extended its consultation by three weeks to ensure that more consideration can be given and voices can be heard , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister keeps my right hon . Friends updated on the progress of this . My constituent has recently applied to move from her council home because she can no longer walk up the stairs and is in constant pain . She has been waiting for an knee operation for more than two years and has become progressively worse . She feels forgotten and neglected . Does the Prime Minister agree that his Government are failing and that this country is waiting for a Labour Government to bring down NHS waiting lists ? Of course I am sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Lady ’s constituent . We are putting in more money and rolling out more elective surgical hubs to bring the waiting lists down . She talks about the difference that the Labour party would make to the NHS . Her constituents can just look to Wales to see what is happening when it comes the NHS : a quarter of the Welsh population on a waiting list , the worst emergency care performance in Great Britain , people on long waiting lists five times more than they are in England and , on average , people waiting 40 % longer for treatment . That is the reality of Labour and the NHS — failing . Forty years ago , Mrs Thatcher described high inflation as a “ destroyer … of industry , of jobs , of savings ” . Does my right hon . Friend agree that that sentiment is as true today as it was then ? What assessment does he make of today ’s announcement for my Gedling constituents , who want to be able to save , get a good job and enjoy a reasonable standard and cost of living ? My hon . Friend is right that today marks a major moment for the economy ; not only have we halved inflation , but it has returned back to normal , thanks to the collective hard work , sacrifice and resilience of people up and down the country . That is further proof that our plan is working . Mortgage rates have come down , energy bills have come down , taxes are being cut and inflation is now back to normal . That shows that when we stick to the plan , we can look forward to a brighter future , but he is right to point out the alternative : the Labour party imposing £ 2,000 of tax rises — that is what would put the country ’s stability at risk . England ’s chief medical officer said that reducing sewage in rivers and seas is a “ public health priority ” , highlighting the problems that dumping untreated sewage causes . Even the treated sewage that is continuously discharged into rivers and seas contains faecal matter . Water firms are now asking for bills to go up by up to 91 % , when they have paid out billions to shareholders and neglected pipework and infrastructure . Can the Prime Minister tell me why his Government are allowing those companies to destroy our waterways and make obscene levels of profit , while making people ill ? The level of overflows we have seen is unacceptable , but we have gone further than any other Government , monitoring 100 % of overflows — up from only 7 % under Labour — investing record amounts in our water infrastructure , enshrining in law strict targets and introducing unlimited fines for water companies to hold them to account . But when it came to this House the Labour party could not even vote for its own policy . That is because there is only one party with a plan to protect the environment — the Conservative party . Our NHS needs to be at the cutting edge of innovation and transformation , so I very much welcome the recent announcement on artificial intelligence in the delivery of radiotherapy . Will my right hon . Friend commit to going further and faster in the roll - out and realising the potential of AI and the latest , most innovative medtech across our NHS , benefiting not only patients , but clinicians ? I agree with my hon . Friend that we need to ensure that our NHS is a world leader in medical innovation . That is why yesterday we announced funding to roll out game - changing AI to radiotherapy departments in England . The benefits are clear , because that technology can locate cancer cells two and a half times quicker than doctors alone . But we will not stop there . We recognise the huge potential ; that is why the productivity plan announced in the spring Budget will modernise the NHS and ensure that our patients get the care they deserve . In recent days , the Trussell Trust has revealed that its network has handed out more than 3.1 million emergency food parcels in the past year . That is the most it has ever distributed and nearly double the number of five years ago . Absolute poverty among children in this country has risen by its highest rate in 30 years , and a quarter of all children live below the poverty line . Two thirds of UK children in poverty live in families in which at least one parent works . My Streatham constituency is one of the worst affected . Does the Prime Minister have any plans to restore the child poverty unit , address the calls for universal free school meals , or report on any Government plans aimed at tackling child poverty at all ? Nobody wants to see any child grow up in poverty , and that is why I am pleased that the record of this and previous Governments has reduced not just the number of people living in poverty , but the number of children living in poverty , thanks to our measures to strengthen the economy . When it comes to food support for vulnerable children , we have extended the holiday activity and food programme with £ 200 million of funding , and we are investing £ 30 million in our national school breakfast programme , which will now run until the end of the summer term . The best ways to help people with the cost of living are to cut their taxes , keep unemployment low and get inflation down — things that this Government are doing . What is the Prime Minister ’s assessment of how the very welcome news of today ’s reduction in inflation will help businesses and families with the costs that they face ? My hon . Friend is exactly right in his analysis of how to help working families and our country . Thanks to the difficult decisions that we have taken , inflation today is back to normal , which is a very welcome moment . Of course , there is more work to do , and people are only just starting to feel the benefits , but it is clear that the plan is working , and that is why we have also been able to deliver significant tax cuts worth £ 900 to the average worker in our country . That is all progress that would absolutely be put at risk by the Labour party . Harland & Wolff is an iconic cornerstone of the UK ’s future shipbuilding , defence and energy capabilities . It has saved four shipyards from administration , having invested millions , and it now employs 1,500 workers across England , Scotland and Northern Ireland , many of whom are my constituents . Approval for the company ’s export development guarantee is crucial to consolidate that progress . Will the Prime Minister ensure that that is achieved ? The Government are committed to supporting the UK shipbuilding sector right across the nation . I have seen at first hand what companies such as Harland & Wolff do , and the role that they play in the economy . Although , as the hon . Gentleman will understand , I can not comment specifically on the details of any individual case due to commercial sensitivity , I can assure him that we are working closely with Harland & Wolff in its request for a UK Export Finance - guaranteed loan — that is under consideration . I also pay tribute to the right hon . Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for all his strong advocacy for that company . The smart new £ 15 million accident and emergency unit at Huddersfield Royal Infirmary opened in the early hours of this morning . Will the Prime Minister join me in thanking the team at HRI and welcoming the new doctors and nurses who have been recruited for the A&E unit , and does he agree that , alongside the new teaching block at Greenhead College , the West Yorkshire investment zone and the trans - Pennine rail upgrade , it shows that we are delivering for my constituents in the Holme and Colne valleys and Lindley ? I congratulate my hon . Friend and his constituents on their brand - new A&E unit at the Huddersfield Royal Infirmary , which is , as he said , a real game - changer for residents . It is not the only piece of delivery in his area . He mentioned the trans - Pennine rail upgrade delivering faster journeys , but there are also levelling - up projects such as Huddersfield open market and the new teaching block at Greenhead College . They show that it is the Conservatives who are delivering on the priorities of his local community . The International Criminal Court ’s chief prosecutor is seeking arrest warrants for Israeli and Hamas leaders for war crimes and crimes against humanity . This House does not aid and abet Hamas , but it does aid and abet Israel through the sale of arms , such as components for Israeli F-35s — known as the most lethal fighter jet on earth — which are raining down hell on Gaza . Will the Prime Minister uphold international law , drop the nonsense about the most robust licensing system in the world and end arms sales to Israel ? If the ICC issues arrest warrants , will he comply by ensuring that those individuals are arrested if they enter the UK ? It is always nice to see the changed Labour party in action . When it comes to the ICC , this is a deeply unhelpful development , which of course is still subject to a final decision . There is no moral equivalence between a democratically elected Government exercising their lawful right to self - defence and the actions of a terrorist group , and the actions of the ICC do absolutely nothing to get a pause in the fighting , or to get the hostages out or aid in . I call Craig Mackinlay . Thank you , Mr Speaker . This is an emotional day for me , and if you will indulge me , I will say a few thanks , because a few are due . Apologies are due , actually , as I have caused the breaking of so many rules today : there has been clapping ; I have got trainers on because my shoes would not go over the plastic feet ; and my jacket would not go over the bionic arm . First , I thank you , Mr Speaker , for being there for me and for coming to visit . I will tell everybody this little story : the rest of the hospital thought I must be dreadfully ill , because they said , “ That guy ’s got the funeral director in already . ” [ Laughter . ] But you have been , and you have cared for me throughout , and I thank you for that . The other person in this Chamber I would like to thank is the Prime Minister , who has been with me throughout . He has not advertised it , but he has been to see me multiple times . To me , that shows the true depth of the character of the Prime Minister , and I thank him for that . I thank my wife , who is in the Chamber , my daughter and other family members — my father and my father - in - law . I thank my wife for being there every single day of those many months in hospital . She could only do that because of the support of family behind her . In the Public Gallery — they can not quite see me , unfortunately — are many of the staff from the NHS . [ Applause . ] They took me from where I was , close to death , to where I am today , so I thank them for that . I am not entirely sure I am that happy that the two surgeons who took this lot off are there , but never mind . There is a question here . Prime Minister , can we please ensure that we embed recognition of early signs of sepsis ? It would not have worked for me — mine was too quick and too sudden — but many people do get a few days . If we can stop somebody from ending up like this , I would say that that is a job well done . I would also like to impress upon Health Ministers the importance of allowing the provision of appropriate prosthetics , particularly for multi - limb amputees , at the right time . Thank you , Mr Speaker ; thank you , Prime Minister . [ Applause . ] It is so wonderful to hear from my hon . Friend . I thank him for his kind words , but I also personally pay tribute to his family , who are here in the Chamber . I know first hand the extraordinary job they did to support him over the past several months , and they all deserve our absolute admiration and thanks for what they have done . Before I answer the substantive question he has raised , I also join him in paying tribute to the NHS workers who looked after him . My hon . Friend is right that sepsis is a devastating condition ; we are working hard to raise awareness of it , and I know that he will play a leading role in doing that . Without getting into all the details , I will just say that he is right : as the NHS itself has recognised this morning , more needs to be done , and I can assure him that we will do that . My right hon . Friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) will discuss with him shortly , as will I , his suggestions for how we can improve care and awareness for people , but I will end where I started earlier today : Craig , you have inspired each and every one of us . Thank you . Arrests and Prison Capacity 12.39 pm ( Urgent Question ): To ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the impact on public safety of the request to chief constables to reduce arrests in response to the prison capacity crisis . I am delighted to have the opportunity to talk about public safety , about the record number of police officers in this country—3,000 more than under the last Labour Government — and about the fact that according to the crime survey there is less than half the crime today than there was under the last Labour Government . There were 620 homicides in the last year of the last Labour Government , compared with 577 in the last year . I am delighted to talk about all those excellent criminal justice results . I believe this urgent question was prompted by a letter circulated about a week ago by Chief Constable Rob Nixon in his capacity as criminal justice lead for the National Police Chiefs ’ Council , in which he referred to short - term prison place pressures over a period of eight days expiring tomorrow . I have spoken to Chief Constable Rob Nixon in the last half an hour and he has confirmed to me that the contingencies referred to in the letter were not required . He said the contingencies were not required because the prison place situation in practice did not merit it ; he said there have been no delays to arrests that he is aware of ; and he has said that while a small number of people were conveyed to court in police cars and there was a small number of delays to arrival at court , no one who should have got to court did not do so . I am delighted to confirm to the House that the contingencies referenced in the letter did not materialise , and that the short - term fluctuation referenced in the letter will be over tomorrow . I have to say that the Minister ’s response is shocking : telling people they have never had it so good when faced with this crisis in the criminal justice system shows just how out of touch he is . The state of crisis in the criminal justice system after 14 years of Conservative Government is now so dire that police chiefs were asked to arrest fewer people because the system could not cope . At the Operation Safeguard silver update they were asked to consider pausing any planned operations where large numbers of arrests might take place to ease the pressure within the criminal justice system — because this Tory Government , in power for 14 years , had so catastrophically failed to manage the criminal justice system or build the basic prison places promised . Last week alone there were 280 prisoners in police cells overnight ; we have got early release , massively expanded , starting tomorrow , including for domestic abusers ; and now this serious impact on public safety of Operation Early Dawn telling the prisoner escort service not to collect prisoners from police stations to take them to court because there are not enough places , with police forces having to pick up the pieces instead . The NPCC said in its letter in the strongest terms that that is unsustainable and that it risks public safety . Will the Minister tell us what assessment he did when these letters went out , and when the crisis reached this point , of the scale of the challenge ? Who , in these circumstances , does he think it is acceptable not to send to court because of his Government ’s abject failure on law and order ? Violent criminals ? Domestic abusers ? Repeat shoplifters ? And which big operations involving lots of arrests does he think should be paused in these situations ? Crackdowns on drugs rings or grooming gangs ? Swoops on people smugglers ? And when should they be paused until ? Where is the Government plan ? Arrests have already halved since the Tories came to power , and charge rates have already dropped through the floor . The legacy of 14 years of Tory government on law and order is more criminals let off , more victims let down . Britain deserves better . The right hon . Lady likes to pontificate in an animated fashion , but the fact is that , according to the crime survey , crime has halved since the Government of which she was a part left office . She feigns indignation about the early custody release scheme , but she forgot to mention that , under the last Labour Government , it ran for three years and saw 80,000 people released early . The right hon . Lady referenced the letter from last week . I have a message here from Chief Constable Rob Nixon , sent to me about 45 minutes ago , updating me on the actual situation , so let me just read out to the House what it says . The National Police Chiefs ’ Council criminal justice lead said : “ There have been no delays to arrests . ” He said there have been some minor delays in getting people to court , but everyone who needed to got there . A small number were conveyed by police , but there was limited operational impact . He says : “ There has been no compromise to public safety , and the contingency of delaying arrests was not activated as it was not necessary . ” That is from the National Police Chiefs ’ Council , sent 45 minutes ago . Those are the facts , and I suggest the right hon . Lady sticks to them . [ Interruption . ] I call Sir Robert Neill , and I hope there will be more calm . Does my right hon . Friend agree that this important debate , which touches upon not only public safety but the whole way in which our justice system operates , is best dealt with in a calm fashion ? It is perfectly reasonable to adopt contingency measures , which we hope are often not needed , but the most important thing is to ensure that all parties in this House commit to a consistent and sustained investment in all aspects of the criminal justice system , because we can not decouple policing from the courts , prisons and the whole of the process . That is the sensible debate that the country needs to have . My hon . and learned Friend , as always , puts it very well . He is quite right that investment is important . That is why there are record numbers of police officers . It is why 20,000 prison places are in the course of being constructed , 5,900 of which are currently operational and 10,000 of which will be operational by the end of next year . It is why more money is being put into the Crown Prosecution Service . It is why my right hon . and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor , who is here on the Front Bench , is ensuring that legal aid is properly resourced , as is the criminal Bar . Those are all extremely important initiatives to ensure that the public are protected . The ultimate measure of public protection , of course , is the overall level of criminality , which , as I have said once or twice before , has halved since the Labour party left office . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . Obviously , public safety is paramount in all of this , and I do want to say to the Minister that the fact that contingency plans were being drawn up is itself worrying . I accept what the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learned Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , says about this being a sensible step to take , but it is indeed very worrying that we have to have contingencies in place . If in the future these contingency plans are activated , what happens if the police decide not to prioritise an arrest and in the meantime that person goes on to harm someone ? I am thinking of non - contact sexual offences and , in particular , retail crime , which the Home Affairs Committee has been looking at recently . The right hon . Lady is right to say that arrests of offenders of the kinds she describes are extremely important , and at no point would I ever expect , even in the contingency outlined — in fact , it never came to pass , as I have set out — that offenders of the kinds she references would not continue to be arrested . That is critically important . The ECSL 70 measure — end of custody supervised licence for up to 70 days — which comes into effect tomorrow , is designed to ensure that such scenarios never come about , because as Policing Minister I want to make sure that we never see the situation she describes . Will my right hon . Friend accept that the action by the leader of the National Police Chiefs ’ Council is against the separation of powers principles ? We make the law in this House , and we expect it to be implemented and administered without fear or favour . What seems to be happening is that unelected chiefs , such as the NPCC leader , are interfering with the administration of justice . Does my right hon . Friend agree that things would be a lot better if the Criminal Justice Board had not failed to meet for two years , which is apparently what has happened ? Will he accept that we need to start putting things right ? The Times today describes it as a failure of administration . I am happy to confirm that the Criminal Justice Board , chaired by my right hon . and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor , meets very frequently . Indeed , I attended its most recent meeting just three or four weeks ago — with the Lord Chancellor , other Ministers , police leads , senior members of the judiciary and the Crown Prosecution Service , and many others — so I can categorically confirm that it does exist and it meets regularly . On my hon . Friend ’s question about the police , the police are rightly operationally independent . It is not for Ministers to direct how they discharge their duties ; they discharge their duties appropriately with their professional standards and professional judgment , and we support them in doing so . Operational independence for the police is important , as I am sure everyone on both sides of the House respects . It is obvious from the Minister ’s demeanour that he does not like to be called to account , but he should reflect on the fact that the mere fact such a letter was written , and in the circumstances in which it was written , is a cause for concern , which he should be taking seriously . It is symptomatic of a wider malaise in the English and Welsh criminal justice system . Last year , 215,933 burglaries went unsolved across England and Wales — an average of 592 a day . Is that not something the Minister should be addressing , rather than getting a little bit worked up with the shadow Home Secretary ? I may have got worked up , because the allegations being made were , in my view , unfounded and unsupported by the facts . I was simply trying to put across the facts — both the numbers and also the quotes from the relevant policing lead — which flatly contradicted the dystopian picture that the shadow Home Secretary , characteristically , was seeking to paint . To answer the right hon . Gentleman ’s question , we of course take such matters seriously . The Lord Chancellor is working night and day to increase prison capacity , both by building new prisons expeditiously and by pulling every lever at his disposal to build more capacity within the existing estate . The prisons are pretty full because the police have done a good job at identifying , catching and incarcerating dangerous criminals . A thoughtful approach , of the kind called for by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learned Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , has been taken . That is why , with the implementation of the end of custody supervised licence tomorrow , the issues and contingencies provided for in the letter of last week will no longer be required . It was an eight - day period and , thankfully , those contingencies were not in fact required . It is reassuring to hear from the Minister that the contingencies were not required , but also interesting to see that the letter was actually issued . Given his reactions here today to that , what process has he put in place to ensure that he is consulted before any such instructions or suggestions are issued ? As a former Home Office Minister , my hon . Friend has a great deal of experience in this area . The police are operationally independent , but we liaise closely with them and the National Police Chiefs ’ Council . I have regular discussions with Gavin Stephens , who chairs the NPCC , and , in relation to this matter , with Chief Constable Rob Nixon , who is the criminal justice lead , and with Deputy Chief Constable Nev Kemp of Surrey , who is the lead for custody . I will take this opportunity to place on the record my thanks to police up and down the country for their careful management over the past seven days , which has ensured that our fellow citizens have been kept safe . North Yorkshire and West Yorkshire police have just arrested 62 people in a county lines operation . They seized swords , a machete and a crossbow , and took 3 kg of cannabis , crack cocaine and heroin off the streets , alongside the misery and violence that characterises county lines gangs . I am so grateful to them for that work , but are the Government suggesting that they should have allowed it to continue until further notice under these contingency plans , all because the Government have so mismanaged the criminal justice system and the collapse in prison places ? First , prison places have not collapsed ; I think there are more prison places now than in the recent past . I congratulate North Yorkshire and West Yorkshire police on that operation , which the hon . Lady said led to 62 arrests of dangerous criminals . As I have said , none of the contingencies referenced were activated , and there was never any question of dangerous criminals of that kind not being arrested . That is exactly the kind of operation we like to see . I am speaking from memory , but I think we have closed down something like 6,000 county lines in the past four years . I am delighted to see such operations successfully putting dangerous criminals where they belong : behind bars . I am glad to hear that the contingency contained in the letter was not required . We can tell how tough this Government are being on crime and criminals by the very heavy population in our prison estate . The long - term solution is to build more prisons . Can the Minister update us on when he estimates the prison building programme will catch up with the prison population ? The Justice Secretary and the Prisons Minister , my right hon . Friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , who is also here , are building prison capacity rapidly . By the end of next year they will have added 10,000 prison places , including at sites such as HMP Millsike , which will be open shortly . We are embarking on a huge prison construction programme , which is on top of the fact that we already have record numbers of prison places . The fact that we have filled those up with criminals , serving typically longer sentences , is testament to the successful approach to law and order that this Government have taken . Last Friday I attended a community meeting in my constituency with a group of residents , our local safer neighbourhood team and some of our elected councillors . It was in response to a fatal shooting of a young 26 - year - old . The residents spoke about having the reassurance of knowing that the suspect had already been arrested , thanks to the work of the local police . What is the Minister ’s message to my constituents , and many others across the country , where suspects will now not be arrested as a result of this guidance ? First , I pay tribute to the hon . Lady ’s local police for the work they have done . I gently refer her to my previous answers : there have been no arrests that ought to have taken place but did not as a result of this contingency . The way she framed her question completely ignored the answers I have previously given . The contingencies referred to in the letter were not in fact required , so her constituents and everybody else ’s can be assured that the police are continuing to do their job of arresting dangerous criminals . I thank my right hon . Friend for the update to the House . In London we have the challenge of the Metropolitan police failing to meet their recruitment targets . The police are under incredible pressure at weekends , policing hate marches and other demonstrations in central London . Police are being drawn in from outside London to carry that out . Now that the mayoral election is over , what action is my right hon . Friend taking with the Mayor of London to ensure that the Met police meet their recruitment targets , and that the police are trained properly and can get on with the job of catching criminals ? My hon . Friend is right to raise the question of police numbers in London . Whereas across England and Wales as a whole we have record police numbers and 42 of the 43 police forces met their recruitment target , there was one that did not : the Metropolitan police under Sadiq Khan . In fact , its numbers unfortunately have shrunk in the past year , rather than grown . I therefore attended the police performance oversight group , which is the special measures group chaired by the chief inspector , just a few days ago , attended by the commissioner and the deputy Mayor , Sophie Linden . Unfortunately , Sadiq Khan did not see fit to show up to that meeting . One of the points I made forcefully was the importance of growing police numbers in London . It is the only force in the country to miss its target , and that must be turned around . Let me get this right : the Government are boasting that they appointed 20,000 extra policemen and women to prevent crime and protect the public ; criminals create and undertake crime ; and an instruction is given to the police not to arrest them because the prisons are full . The Government ’s defence is , “ It ’s all right ; the instruction was never acted upon . ” Can the public have any confidence , if it is possible for the police to give instructions today , and maybe again next week , not to arrest criminals ? Can we really believe that crime is being taken seriously in this country ? Crime is taken very seriously , which why it has fallen by 6 % in the past year and 55 % since 2010 . The right hon . Gentleman referred to a period of just eight days when a contingency was considered but not used . The Lord Chancellor , rightly and in a thoughtful and measured manner , has taken steps that will take effect tomorrow to ensure that such a contingency is not required in future . That is a responsible way of handling the situation . The Minister has stood in front of us today and said , “ It would never be any of the kind of crimes you ’re talking about . ” The Prime Minister said last week at Prime Minister ’s questions : “ No one would be put on the scheme ” — the early release scheme — “ if they were deemed a threat to public safety . ”—[Official Report , 15 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c. 249 . ] The Minister is basically saying the same today , yet my inbox is full of cases of where perpetrators of domestic violence , rape , sexual violence and child abuse against multiple victims are being released early from prison . Does he think that someone who has raped someone , gone to prison , come out and done it again is not deemed a threat to the public ? I can answer the hon . Lady ’s question specifically : the early release scheme that the Lord Chancellor established expressly excludes serious violence and sexual offenders , including rapists . There is an additional safeguard , which did not exist in the previous Labour Government ’s equivalent scheme : a governor ’s veto of early release if they believe there is a threat to public safety . I am glad that the Minister has brought the Lord Chancellor and the Prisons Minister with him , as they can explain how 70 - day early release — Operation Early Dawn — means that criminals either will not be locked up or are being let out early . Is the truth not that he is presiding over operational failures in policing , the courts and the prison system , and is responding to them with ad hoc panic measures ? The police are successfully reducing crime , for which I thank them . In the last calendar year — the most recent year for which figures are available — there were 30,000 more successful outcomes , which typically means a prosecution , than the previous year . The courts and prisons systems in England and Wales — as in Scotland and around the world — are under pressure , candidly speaking , largely as a result of the post - covid environment and delays that built up in the system during covid , which have not yet cleared . That is not unique to this jurisdiction . Those people released according to the criteria that I mentioned are closely supervised under licence , and subject to recall should they breach that licence . My constituent Johnny Wood ’s sister Jackie was tragically killed by four men driving a stolen lorry in 2018 . They were convicted of dangerous driving , but one of them has been released from prison , having served only half his sentence — just five years . He is reported to have broken his banning order from the local area while under supervision from the Probation Service . Johnny and his family have been let down by every part of the system over the last six years . What is the Minister ’s message to Johnny , and what specifically can he do to help in this case ? I have every sympathy for victims such as the hon . Lady ’s constituent , and the truly tragic case that she outlines . If she would like me to look into particular policing aspects of that case , I would be happy to help . If it is a prisons , probation or sentencing - related issue , my right hon . Friends from the Ministry of Justice stand ready to help her and her constituent . In relation to automatic release on to licence , under the last Labour Government all offenders ended up getting automatically released at the halfway point . This Government have substantially reduced that , including for offences such as rape . I recall in a Bill Committee a couple of years ago that Labour MPs voted against a measure to keep rapists in prison for longer . Over the weekend I was almost in tears reading a letter from a local primary school of an account of one of their young mums who felt so intimidated by antisocial behaviour on her estate that she was unable to walk her young son to school in the morning . The school tried to provide a social worker to escort her , but they also felt intimidated . What message does it send to the school , the mum and her child about the safety of our streets when chief constables feel it necessary to deprioritise arrests on the Minister ’s watch ? Cases of the kind that the hon . Lady describes would not have been in the scope of the contingency outlined in the letter of a week ago . The antisocial behaviour that she described is completely unacceptable . I am sure that many Members are parents and would want their own children to go to and from school safely . The Government have launched an antisocial action plan , one of the elements of which is a funded scheme for antisocial behaviour hotspot patrols . That started just a few weeks ago , so I would urge the hon . Lady to speak to her local police and crime commissioner — I think a newly elected one in Northumbria , if memory serves me correctly — and to ask that one of the funded hotspot patrols be set up in the vicinity of that school to try to tackle the issue that she described , because no parent should have to face that . Figures published last month showed that Bedfordshire police has the slowest response time to 999 calls , because of understaffing . Does the Minister realise how ridiculous it sounds to ask the police not to police and to arrest fewer people , because his Government have broken the justice system and are allowing criminals to get away scot - free ? That is a completely inaccurate characterisation of the situation . The eight - day period provided for a contingency that was not required . I have read to the House an assurance from the relevant National Police Chiefs ’ Council lead that arrests were not forgone or cancelled as a result of the contingency . More widely , as I have said , we have record police numbers and lower crime than 14 years ago , and I would have thought that we would all welcome that . The issue with prison capacity is partly a crisis of reoffending . Dartmoor prison was subject to an inspection last year , and was awarded only one out of four because of inadequate education and work opportunities . HMP Dartmoor holds a large number of people convicted of sexual offences , but the report says that there were no accredited programmes for rehabilitation . Sexual offences in Devon and Cornwall rose by 19 % in the year to 2023 . Does the Minister accept that the prison capacity crisis is partly about reoffending , and what is he doing about it ? The Justice Secretary has assured me that Dartmoor is a well - run and well - regarded prison . One of the reasons why my colleagues in the Ministry of Justice , here on the Benches , are presiding over such a large increase in prison capacity is to ensure that prisoners are better rehabilitated in the prison estate . The hon . Gentleman rightly mentioned reoffending : preventing reoffending is critical . Much offending is connected with drug addiction — some estimates suggest nearly half — so getting more people into treatment is important , both in the courts system and in the prison estate . It is critical that , as people leave prison and re - enter the community , the drug treatment they received in prison continues in the community . We call it continuity of care , and it has increased quite dramatically recently — I would like it increase even more . That is one of the ways that we will reduce reoffending , which , as he said , is an important policy objective . On a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wonder if you could help me to get some answers . The Minister said during the urgent question that certain criminals who are a risk to the public would not be released , unlike Charlie Taylor , the inspector of prisons , who said that high - risk prisoners are being released under the scheme . I have heard of a case where it took the court 29 months to hold a sentencing hearing on actual bodily harm against two different people as part of a domestic abuse situation . The prisoner was sentenced to four years , and was deemed to be such a risk because of previous sexual violence convictions that he was put on remand . On the day of the sentencing hearing , he was released immediately because he had been identified as suitable for early release . Yet the Minister told me today that no one with a history of sexual offending , who was a risk to the public or who had committed domestic abuse would be released . That is just one of many cases . I wonder whether the Prime Minister or the Minister has misled the House . Could you advise me how I could take that up ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I am sure she meant to say that she was indicating that any misleading of the House would be inadvertent . I am not responsible , obviously , for responses from Ministers , but the Minister , who is still here , will have heard her comments , as will have those on the Treasury Bench . Does the Minister wish to speak further to that point of order ? Further to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . The hon . Lady raises an individual case and I am sure the Lord Chancellor would be happy to look at an individual case for her . She mentioned someone released on sentencing . Of course , the court or the probation service will look at time served on remand already , so a prisoner may have been on remand for quite a long time at the point that they come to a sentencing hearing . To repeat the more general rules , which are Ministry of Justice policy : the release under licence up to 70 days prior to the ordinary release point does not apply to any prisoner serving a sentence of more than four years ; it does not apply to any prisoner serving a sentence for serious sexual or violent offences ; and the prison governor can veto the release of a prisoner considered to be a danger . Those are the safeguards , but if the hon . Lady wants to debate the matter in more detail , I am sure my colleague the Lord Chancellor would be very happy to do that . I thank the Minister for stating his position . I suggest that perhaps the offer of a further discussion with the Lord Chancellor would be appropriate . I am sure the hon . Lady will come back after that if she feels there are further points she wishes to make . She is very experienced in knowing how to make her views known in the House , so I am sure that that is probably the best way forward for now . The Economy With permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the economy , following the release of inflation data by the Office for National Statistics this morning and the conclusion of the International Monetary Fund ’s annual article IV mission to the UK on Tuesday . The ONS data released today shows that consumer prices index inflation has fallen to 2.3%—a return to normal levels last seen before the pandemic and Russia ’s invasion of Ukraine . Earlier this week , the IMF said that the UK economy is “ approaching a soft landing ” . It upgraded its forecasts for UK growth in 2024 , having seen lower inflation accompanied by stronger than expected growth in the first quarter . These developments are proof that the Government ’s plan is working , the difficult decisions we have taken are paying off and the UK economy really is beginning to turn the corner . Let me start with the inflation figures . When the Prime Minister came to office less than two years ago , inflation was over 11 % . The fall to 2.3 % means that we have seen the fastest fall in inflation in nearly half a century . The UK now has a lower inflation rate than the United States , France and Germany . Food inflation is at its lowest level since November 2021 , having fallen for 13 consecutive months , and staples such as milk , cheese and eggs are now cheaper than they were this time last year , although there is more to do . Energy bills have also come down , with the price cap for the typical annual bill now over 25 % lower than a year ago , although they are still above where they were in 2021 . The fall in inflation has not happened by accident . The Government have had to make difficult decisions to get us to this point , as well as supporting the Bank of England as it has acted to bring down inflation sustainably . We have reduced borrowing , which is now forecast to fall in every year to 2028 - 29 , and we are acting to boost growth without generating inflation . We have frozen fuel and alcohol duty , which the Office for Budget Responsibility estimates will reduce inflation by 0.2 % in this financial year . Moreover , in the face of widespread pressure we have reached fair pay deals for public sector workers , instead of doing what the Labour party would have done : cave in to inflation - busting pay demands . We must always remain vigilant when it comes to inflation , but today ’s numbers show the benefits of sticking to our plan . We know that recent years have not been easy for people , but with wages having now grown faster than inflation for 10 months in a row , families around the country will start to see their money go further . And we are doing more , because on this side of the House we recognise that while the tax rises of recent years may have been necessary at that time of crisis , they should not be permanent . We will do the hard work to bring taxes back down , because we know that to do so will lead to more growth for our economy . My right hon . Friend the Chancellor has already delivered tax cuts worth £ 900 for the average worker . Since 2010 , the effective tax paid by somebody on an average salary has fallen under Conservative Governments from 24 % to 19 % . Combined with national living wage increases , that means the after - tax income of somebody on the lowest legally payable wage has gone up by 35 % in the same period . Labour ’s approach is different . All Labour Governments since the 1970s have increased the tax burden in both good times and bad . Given the fiscal rules Labour has set , the only way for it to pay for its spending commitments would be to raise taxes by considerably more than the £ 20 billion of tax increases they have already outlined . I will now turn to the IMF ’s annual article IV mission to the UK and what it said about the Government ’s other economic priority , beyond inflation , to deliver growth and opportunity for the whole United Kingdom . The IMF ’s message was , overall , a positive one . We have seen growth of 0.6 % in the first quarter of this year that is stronger and more broad - based than many independent forecasters expected , and no other G7 country has grown faster in the first quarter on a quarter - by - quarter basis . The IMF has upgraded its forecast for the whole of this year from 0.5 % to 0.7 % , and in April said that the UK is expected to see the fastest cumulative growth of any major European economy over the next six years . That is partly the result of our focus on areas that the IMF says are critical to delivering sustainable economic growth : boosting jobs , boosting the labour supply and increasing business investment . We already have a proud record on jobs . The president of the CBI recently described the UK as a job - creating factory . That is because , over the last 14 years , we have built one of the most flexible , dynamic labour markets in Europe . But we can not take that for granted and we can not let the Labour party impose new burdens on employers , which would turn a job - creating factory into a French - style inflexible labour market . Unemployment in France , as it so happens , is nearly double that of the United Kingdom — indeed , not far off where it was in the UK under the last Labour Government . We must not turn the clock back . The OBR estimates that cuts in national insurance will bring the equivalent of 200,000 more people into the workforce — enough to fill nearly a quarter of the vacancies in our economy . We are reforming welfare . Labour has said it is against welfare sanctions — fair enough , that is its position — but that will mean more people on our welfare rolls , not less . The reforms of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will help 1 million people move from welfare into work , at a cost of £ 2.5 billion . Meanwhile , the introduction of full expensing , the biggest business tax cut in decades , will boost business investment by £ 15 billion in the coming years and give this country the most generous capital allowances in the OECD . There is more to do , and the IMF is right to point out that further bold reforms will be needed and that boosting growth and productivity is the key challenge for the United Kingdom . However , in the words of the IMF ’s managing director , the UK is in a good place . Inflation is back to more normal levels , growth is picking up , wages are rising and we are cutting taxes . The plan is working , and the difficult decisions that have been taken by the Government are starting to pay off . Now is not the time to change course , because given Labour ’s policies on jobs , welfare reform and tax , we know that the difference , if it is elected , will be profound and damaging for every family in the country . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . Of course it is welcome that the rate of inflation is finally slowing after three years of the Government missing every single target , but the tone - deaf victory lap we are seeing from the Government today will feel like a slap in the face to the British people who , after 14 long years of Conservative chaos , are still significantly worse off . While Conservative Ministers are popping champagne corks over the rate of food price rises , the cost of the typical family shop has gone up by nearly £ 1,000 since 2019 — so those families will not be celebrating — and while the Chancellor and the Prime Minister gaslight ordinary British families by suggesting that the cost of living crisis is over , the costs for a two - earner household are more than £ 150 a week higher than they were before the last election . The Minister claims that the economy has turned a corner , but in reality the Conservatives ’ record on growth has been nothing short of pitiful . If the UK economy had grown at the average rate of the OECD in the last 14 years , it would now be £ 140 billion larger — that is not just about lines on a graph ; it would have meant an additional £ 50 billion in tax revenues to invest in our public services , and more money in working people ’s pockets . I noted with interest that the Minister quoted selectively from the IMF ’s report . In that report , which he cited so triumphantly , the IMF confirmed that under the Conservatives the UK was suffering from the lowest growth in the G7 , and just this week the IMF said that the longer - term growth prospects of the UK “ remain subdued ” . This is the Conservative party ’s legacy : a poorer Britain , working people worse off , and the public realm in disarray . I think the Minister may also be slightly confused about his Government ’s record on tax . On the Conservatives ’ watch , the tax burden is the highest in 70 years , and under the Prime Minister ’s tax plans households will , on average , be £ 870 worse off by 2028 . Those are the statistics that the Minister missed out . In contrast to the Conservatives , who have consistently failed to explain how they will pay for their £ 46 billion unfunded commitment to abolish national insurance , we in the Labour party have ensured that all our plans are fully costed . Let me also make it clear that a Labour Government would not be celebrating the inflation target finally being met for the first time in years . We would not be doing a tone - deaf victory lap for overseeing a decade and a half of stagnant growth . Instead , we have pledged to deliver economic stability with tough spending rules so that we can grow our economy and keep taxes , inflation and mortgages as low as possible . The choice at the next election is clear : five more years of chaos with the Conservatives or stability with a changed Labour party . That is why the Government are running scared . Time after time , they have chosen to bottle it rather than go to the country , but I hope that , today of all days , the Prime Minister will do the right thing . It is time for this exhausted and failing Government to step aside in the national interest , call an election , and let the responsible party take charge . Let me start by welcoming the shadow Minister ’s remarks , and by saying that no one on the Government Benches — certainly not me — feels that times are not still tough for many millions of people . We are acutely aware of that , which is why we have worked so hard over the last few years to make the difficult decisions that are required for us to guide the country through the difficulties wrought by covid , the biggest pandemic in 100 years , and by the energy shock from the war in Ukraine . No one on this side of the House minimises the difficulties that people have gone through and that many are still going through . Let me pick up a couple of points of fact . The hon . Lady quoted the IMF , and she mentioned selective quotations . I am afraid that she wins the prize on that one : the IMF was very clear about the fact that over the next five or six years , the UK will be the fastest - growing country in the G7 apart from North America . She also mentioned confusion . I think that she and her party are the ones who are confused : they are confused on the question of taxes . We have scored Labour ’s tax plans , and they amount to an extra £ 2,094 over four years for the average person . Labour Members say that they want to grow the economy , and they say that they are pro - business — at least , that is what they tell business people outside the House — but they are putting in place a workers plan , led by their deputy leader , that will impose 70 new regulations on small businesses , far more power for trade unions and day - one rights on employment , and will ban flexible working . It will damage many of the things that make small businesses in this country successful . Let me end by saying this : if we want a Government who will cut inflation further and grow the economy , we should not increase borrowing and increase taxes like the Labour party . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I welcome the Minister ’s statement , which was crammed with useful facts and statistics . Yesterday , our Committee met representatives of the IMF in private , and we had a very interesting and informative discussion . As for yesterday ’s report , the IMF points out that none of this good economic news would be happening had it not been for decisions made in previous Budgets . In particular , it states that the Government “ have delivered several helpful measures over the last three budgets … investment tax reliefs for businesses to boost investment , an expansion of childcare , and active labor market policies . ” This good news is not happening by accident ; it is happening because a plan is in place , and the plan is working . Does the Minister agree ? I do agree , but let me draw attention to a specific point that is often ignored . The Chancellor ’s decisions over the last two fiscal events have set the country up for growth in the future . My hon . Friend mentioned the policy on business expensing ; that was a £ 10 billion tax cut for business . She mentioned childcare policies ; those have helped millions of working families up and down the country . It is because of the cumulative effect of a series of important measures that we are able to stand up here today and say that while we are not there yet , the economy is starting to turn a corner . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . I , too , thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . The Government , understandably , would like to paint the latest inflation figures as a win , but I think the House will forgive me if I do not join them in their victory lap . The reality for numerous households across Scotland , many of whom are continuing to struggle , is that the cost of living crisis is far from over , and people are still feeling the pinch in their pockets . Food bank usage is skyrocketing , and mortgage rates are soaring . For people in Scotland , that is the cost of living with Westminster . The inflation of the past three years has seen prices rise by 19 % when they should have risen by 6 % . Of course , falling inflation does not mean that those prices will now fall . With figures like this , it is little surprise , is it not , that polling this week showed that just 9 % of people across the UK believe that the cost of living crisis is over ? On Friday , I attended a food bank drive at Asda in Parkhead , where residents were donating in their droves to Glasgow NE Foodbank in recognition of the fact that many of their neighbours simply can not afford to eat . I have one simple question for the Minister : does he not realise that today ’s statement , and all the fantoosherie that goes with it , absolutely flies in the face of the reality for many people who are still struggling today in 21st century Britain ? My response to the hon . Gentleman , whom I respect deeply , is twofold . First , we are at an inflection point and the job is not complete . We know that many millions of people are suffering , which is why we are continuing to improve their incomes through cutting their taxes . It is why we are continuing to make sure that small businesses around this country can thrive , and why we are continuing to put more money into our public services and , indeed , to reduce inflation . We know that the job is not done . Secondly , many people have had to suffer as a result of the difficult decisions that had to be taken over recent years because of the generationally unique shocks that we saw . It has been up to this Government to guide and help the country through that , which is what we will continue to do in the weeks and months ahead . Inflation is now lower than in France , Germany or the eurozone , growth has been upgraded by the IMF , and Britain has become the world ’s fourth biggest exporter , overtaking the Netherlands , France and Germany . Employment is at a historically high level , and the UK is the third biggest destination for inward investment globally . On financial services investment , we are top , attracting 108 projects last year , compared with France ’s 39 and Germany ’s 38 . I wonder whether my hon . Friend can correct me — or did I miss the post - Brexit apocalypse that many , including the Treasury , predicted ? My right hon . Friend has put that incredibly well . Very good things have happened to our economy over recent months , particularly in my own area of financial services . I would add that many Members , on both sides of the House , were concerned about the impact of Brexit on the British economy . As he suggested , our record shows that this Government have been able to guide the country through the post - Brexit period and towards better times than ever . Sometimes this House really is a theatre . The Minister has come to the Dispatch Box all jubilant , but my constituents queue outside food banks for hours , from nine o’clock in the morning until nine o’clock at night . Prices are more expensive than when the Tories first took office . This Government have had 14 years and they have destroyed the economy . People are paying £ 250 more a month on their mortgages , according to the Bank of England . I can not believe that the Minister is saying that things are going to get better . Ultimately , I hope that , in a few hours , the Prime Minister will be outside No . 10 and call a general election . People can then make a choice and vote Labour . My response is that this Parliament has seen an unprecedented hit to people ’s living standards because of covid — a once - in-100 - years impact . Might I remind the House that this Government spent £ 450 billion in supporting the economy ? We supported people through programmes such as furlough , supported small businesses through discretionary grants , and supported the NHS . There are so many things that were opposed by the Opposition . Labour Members mention borrowing and taxes . If it had been up to them , we would have been in lockdown for longer . If it had been up to them , we would have borrowed more . If it had been up to them , they would not have made the decisions that we had to make — tough decisions on public sector pay that meant that , by working in partnership with the Bank of England , we could bring inflation down . We are at an inflection point and not everything is complete — we are not there yet — but the economy is starting to turn a corner through the leadership of this Government . Over recent months , we have had a number of statistics on the economy that have been unalloyed good news for this country . It is good news that the economy is doing better , that inflation is down , that growth is up and that trade is up . That makes us all richer , and provides more jobs and employment , which should be rejoiced in by everybody in this House , including the Opposition , who might actually end up in government and inherit the benefits of some of the things that this Government are doing . In truth , I am always a little surprised by how miserable the Opposition get when good news comes along . My hon . Friend makes an important point about those on the Labour Benches . I must admit that I disagree with him on one key point : the idea that they might inherit this . We are not complete yet . We know that the economy still needs to continue to turn and that inflation needs to come down . We hope that that will lead to falling interest rates in due course , and that the measures we have put in place will come to fruition over the next Parliament . The UK economy is smaller now , and living standards are lower now , than at the start of this Parliament — the first time this has ever happened . Does the Minister agree that it is a sign of the Tories ’ increasing desperation that they consider it a cause for celebration that the UK economy has stopped shrinking ? Growth is still lower than in Europe , Asia , the Americas and Australia , and we continue to pay the price of Brexit and Tory incompetence . I am afraid I disagree with the hon . Lady on points of fact . I have already set out so many statistics that show that things are significantly improving in the economy , and at a faster rate than that experienced by most of our competitors in Europe . I completely disagree with her assessment . The Minister was right to update the House on the positive progress that we are making with inflation ; right to make the point that people are continuing to find economic difficulties , and that we need to stick with the Prime Minister ’s plan ; right to point out the terrible risks to the economy posed by the Labour party ’s polices on labour markets and taxes ; and right to say that there have been external factors , and that policies to tackle one - off external factors are different from one ’s policies looking forward . This Government have ended the period of quantitative easing , or printing money , and moved to quantitative tightening , or paying back money . The IMF ’s report says that , by 2025 , the balance sheet for the Bank of England should be settled . Will the Minister look at the longer - range forecasts that the Office for Budget Responsibility has put out , and see what flexibility they provide for the Government to cut taxes or increase expenditure ? I thank my hon . Friend for a characteristically thoughtful and informed question . I will indeed look at what he said about the Bank of England ’s balance sheet being settled by 2025 , and I will talk to him about that in due course . Like the Chancellor , the Minister likes to talk about the difficult decisions that Conservative Administrations have made . The cost of a family shop has risen by £ 1,000 since the last election . The difficult decisions are the ones that families in Newcastle have to make every time they go to a supermarket . Is it not the case that the decisions that his party has chosen to make — austerity , stealth taxes on working people , and crushing growth out of the economy before crashing it altogether — are why my constituents are worse off ? I am afraid I disagree with the hon . Lady . It is very important that this House recognises and admits that , because there was a once - in - a - generation pandemic that cost the Government over £ 400 billion in supporting people , it was necessary for the tax burden to rise for a time to help pay for that . That was a difficult and responsible decision . Now that we have moved into a period of relative calm , there is choice about what we want the economy and our fiscal position to look like over the medium term . On this side of the House , we choose high business investment , high growth and lower taxes on working people , whereas the Opposition choose more union power , higher borrowing and higher taxes . I think the British public are going to stick with us . The latest UK economic data is welcome news , with inflation falling again , real wages rising and the UK forecast to grow faster than many of its peers . The International Monetary Fund is now recommending that the Bank of England cut interest rates , and I agree . What does the Minister think of the IMF ’s view ? As my hon . Friend knows , it is for the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England to determine the policy on interest rates , but we hope that working in partnership with the Bank of England to cut inflation will mean that at some point later in the year interest rates will start to come down , as the IMF has suggested , as a result of inflation being at target . In response to the Minister ’s last reply , even if interest rates are cut later this year , that will not make an impact for a number of my constituents in Vauxhall . According to the Bank of England , people have seen their mortgage and rent go up by over £ 240 a month , as my hon . Friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) said . Over 10.1 million people are falling behind on their bills , according to research by Stop the Squeeze . The Resolution Foundation has found that annual bills in 2024 are now 67 % higher in real terms than in 2021 . This is not a time to celebrate . I know that , at my advice surgery in a week ’s time , my constituents are going to come to me raising these issues . The fact is that they can not afford to heat their home or keep up with their bills . Yes , these statistics may look good , but will the Minister accept that for real people this is another slap in the face ? What I will certainly accept is that there are millions of people in this country for whom the cost of living crisis is still real . That is why we are taking the action that we are taking . That is why working people—[Interruption . ] As a result of cutting national insurance , a person on an average salary is £ 900 better off than they would have been a year ago . That is why we are focusing hard on making sure we bring down borrowing , rather than increase borrowing as planned by the Labour party . What I would say to the hon . Lady ’s constituents if I were to speak to them at her surgery is that the economy is on the right track , that we are at the point where the economy is starting to turn the corner and that , if they go with Labour ’s leadership , things are going to get a lot worse . That is why we need to keep on the plan that we have set out . I thank the Minister for the encouraging economic update . It is so disappointing when we get good news on the economy and it is talked down by the Opposition . Inflation coming down to 2.3 % really shows that the economic plan from this Government is working . With national insurance reductions , pensions increases , boosting jobs and a growing economy , does he agree that it is only the Conservatives that can be trusted to manage the economy soundly ? I agree with my hon . Friend , who is a fantastic champion for his constituents in this House , as everybody in this House knows . The only thing I would add to what he has said is that we on this side of the House know what it is to take responsible decisions and take them for the long term . Given the global macro - shocks faced during this Parliament , particularly the pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine , it is quite remarkable that we have got inflation back down to 2.3 % . It is testament to good fiscal policy , and we are leading the way within the G7 . Does the Minister agree that , for those constituents living in Bracknell Forest who want low inflation , higher employment , higher wages and higher growth , sticking to the plan is absolutely the right thing to do ? My hon . Friend is a brilliant champion for Bracknell Forest , a part of the country that I know well , and I completely agree with his remarks . This positive economic news is extremely welcome , and I have also welcomed the action taken by the Government to reduce the amount of tax on working families . Given this positive economic outlook , will my hon . Friend speak to the Chancellor about increasing the personal tax allowance , particularly to help working families but also to take more pensioners out of paying tax ? As my hon . Friend knows , the Chancellor keeps all taxes under review . I will ensure that he has heard my hon . Friend ’s comments and pleas . Does my hon . Friend accept that today ’s good news would have been even better if the Government had implemented the public sector exit payments restrictions that were legislated for in 2016 and were the subject of a consultation that ended 17 months ago , in respect of which they are apparently unable to agree a response ? Surely the Government should be able to do something about this and save the £ 2 billion that this has so far cost . Is not this an example of a proposal being sabotaged by the civil service ? I have been in correspondence with my hon . Friend a few months ago on this very question , and I would be happy to engage with him on it again . I thank the Minister for his statement . Political Violence and Disruption : Walney Report With permission , I will make a statement on Lord Walney ’s report entitled “ Protecting our Democracy from Coercion ” . Lord Walney was appointed in 2019 to advise the Government on political violence and extremism . Throughout the course of his review , laid before Parliament yesterday and available on gov.uk , he has consulted an extensive evidence base and engaged Government , public bodies , international partners , academia , civil society and those personally affected by violent disruption and extremism . Lord Walney ’s timely and compelling report identifies a rising tide of extremism in this country . Its central finding is that political intimidation and the incitement of hatred by extremist groups and individuals are infringing on the essential rights and freedoms of the British people and those they choose to represent them in politics . In recent months , we have too often seen intimidatory and aggressive protest activity , with frequent disruption to our democratic processes , be that protests outside MPs ’ homes and council meetings or shutting down events where people from both sides of this House have been speaking . Lord Walney eloquently describes the threat posed by the extreme right as well as the extreme left , whose activists , in his words , “ systematically seek to undermine faith in our parliamentary democracy and the rule of law . ” This has a very real impact on the elected representatives who choose to dedicate themselves in service to the public . Lord Walney highlights the 2023 Local Government Association survey ’s finding that 70 % of local councillors felt “ at risk at least some of the time ” while fulfilling their role . It also has an effect on the public servants working to make their communities a better place up and down the country . I was particularly struck by the section on protests at schools . The purpose of schools , as I am sure we can all agree , is to educate our children and to teach students how to think , not what to think . Our teachers must be free to do this without fear or favour . While it is right that schools consult parents on sensitive issues , it is not their job to appease pressure groups , self - appointed community activists or religious institutions . That is why I was deeply concerned by the aggressive protests targeting schools detailed in Lord Walney ’s report . It is unacceptable that , in Birmingham , one assistant head had to be escorted in and out of their school for their own safety . It is unacceptable that , in Batley , a teacher and his family are reportedly still in hiding after being accused of blasphemy . There is no right not to be offended in this country . No religion or belief system is immune from criticism or exempted from our liberal democratic tradition . Blasphemy laws are incompatible with British values and principles . The effect that these incidents have had is utterly unacceptable . Every politician and public servant , at all levels and across all parties , must be able to perform their duties without fear . This transcends party dividing lines . We must all stand up for our shared democratic values and freedoms . This Government will take every possible step to safeguard the people and institutions upon which our democracy depends . We recently committed an additional £ 31 million to bolstering the protection of elected representatives and our democratic processes , an investment that will be used to enhance police capabilities , increase private security support for those facing a higher risk , and expand cyber - security advice . This investment is underpinned by the defending democracy policing protocol , agreed with police chiefs , to ensure a robust policing response to disruptive activity , including the provision of dedicated , named police contacts for all elected representatives and candidates to liaise with on security matters . As Lord Walney sets out , it is vital that we take action to manage and limit the impact of protests that descend into violence and disruption . These have not just resulted in vile displays of antisemitism on our streets and aggressive , disruptive tactics deployed by some protestors ; they have also drained police resources , as officers are redeployed away from their frontline duties to protect the British public from criminals who target them with fraud , theft and violence . We must not forget that it is the British people who pay for this . We must not permit the selfishness of an extremist minority to deprive them of the services they are owed and should rightly expect . That is why , over the coming weeks , the Government will look carefully at Lord Walney ’s recommendations on public order , and will look at changing the thresholds for imposing conditions on protests and the way in which they are applied . This includes amending the threshold to prevent protests from going ahead on account of the cumulative impact of serious disruption , or where there is the threat of intimidating and abusive conduct based on the persistence of previous arrests . In addition , we will consider Lord Walney ’s recommendation for putting greater responsibilities on protest organisers to limit disruption , and to allow the police to account for demands on their resources in setting conditions , to ensure wider public safety in their jurisdictions beyond protests . The Home Secretary , the Policing Minister and I will be considering the merits of these suggestions over the coming weeks . The Government are already introducing measures through the Criminal Justice Bill to crack down on dangerous disorder , many of which were inspired by working closely with Lord Walney over recent months . The Government have also introduced serious disruption prevention orders to allow courts to place requirements or prohibitions on an individual aged 18 or over that they consider necessary and proportionate to prevent that individual from causing serious disruption . We must go further in tackling the root causes . In this vein , the Government have updated the definition of extremism to be used by Government Departments and officials , alongside a set of engagement principles . This is to ensure that they do not , inadvertently or otherwise , provide a platform , funding or legitimacy to groups or individuals who attempt to advance extremist ideologies that would deny our fundamental rights and freedoms . I thank Lord Walney for his tireless effort in bringing the report together , and we will continue to work closely with him to ensure that his findings inform ongoing policy development . We will , of course , update Parliament on our progress at the appropriate time . There is no doubt that extremism poses a threat to our democracy . Left unchecked , it would eat away at the very foundations of our society and the liberties of our people . This Government will not allow that to happen . We will hold ever faster to the values of freedom and tolerance that make our country great . We will use every available tool to combat those who seek to divide us and the poisonous ideologies they espouse . And , in the end , we will defeat extremism in all its ugly forms . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for providing advance sight of it . I join him in thanking Lord Walney for his work on this report . It is important to say from the outset that the Opposition absolutely respect the fundamental freedom to make legitimate , peaceful protest but , when that freedom is abused to intimidate , harass and harm others , safeguards must be put in place to protect the public and our democratic system as a whole . We have seen in recent months that people have been intimidated and have felt threatened due to protest activity . I therefore agree with the Minister that this is totally unacceptable , and there must be no no - go areas in our country . That is why we have been crystal clear that where there are public order offences , hate crime offences or terrorist offences on marches and demonstrations , they must face the full force of the law . The police have our full support in taking swift and robust action . Furthermore , we have been crystal clear that our police forces need the utmost clarity and support to carry out sometimes complex policing operations around protests . The Walney report on political violence and disruption deals with some of the most fundamental and sensitive cornerstones of our democratic society . The Opposition will therefore go through and consider the report ’s 41 recommendations very carefully , with an approach that our long and proud tradition of the right to peaceful protest must never be undermined by criminal or threatening activity on Britain ’s streets . In the first instance , I will touch on two points discussed in the report before asking the Minister a couple of questions . The first point relates to whether the police should have more powers to ban protests that are intimidating or disruptive . It is important to note that the police already have powers under the Public Order Act 1986 to place conditions on protests , including amending routes and timings . They also have the power , in cases where there may be serious public disorder , to apply to the Home Secretary to prohibit a particular protest from taking place . In addition , we have already had several new pieces of public order legislation in recent years that , in some cases , police forces are still getting to grips with . With this in mind , we believe the focus should be on making the existing framework work to make sure that the police can take robust action against those engaging in hateful or criminal behaviour on our streets . That said , we will look at this recommendation in more depth and see what the Government bring forward , because it is vital that everyone in our country feels safe on our streets . The second point relates to protest organisers paying policing costs . The report ’s recommendation raises a series of practical considerations about which organisations would be forced to pay and under what circumstances . Again , we think the focus at the moment should be on making existing legislation work but , as with the rest of the report , we will examine these recommendations in more depth and see what the Government bring forward . Before asking the Minister a couple of questions , I welcome that the report raises serious concerns about the growing intimidation of Members of this House and local councillors . The Minister knows that , through the Defending Democracy Taskforce , we will continue to support the Government in their important work . He also knows that I stand ready to work closely with him to support his vital work in this area . The report has been published amid activity across Government to counter extremism , bolster community cohesion and protect our democracy from malign forces , not least the work under way in the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities after the definition of extremism was published in March , and the work of the Defending Democracy Taskforce . I therefore ask the Minister to explain how other relevant Ministers in other relevant Government Departments will be involved in the preparation of the Government ’s response to the Walney report . Lord Walney ’s work started in 2021 and , entirely understandably , had to be revised in the aftermath of the 7 October attacks . Although there had to be proper consultation and careful thought applied to such important matters , does the Minister think it would have been helpful if the report had been published sooner ? I also point out to the Minister that the counter - extremism strategy is nine years out of date , while the hate crime strategy is now four years out of date . What plans does he have to update them ? To conclude , let me be clear that we on the Labour Benches will work to ensure that these threats are countered . We will work to defend the values of freedom and tolerance that are the cornerstones of our democracy , and we will work to defeat all those who seek to harm and undermine our way of life — in that , we will be unrelenting . I thank the hon . Gentleman for his comments and the way he has approached this matter . He has always been extremely pragmatic in areas of national security , and has certainly been a very capable partner with whom I have been able to work . I am grateful for his approach today . I am particularly grateful that the hon . Gentleman is open to looking at certain areas of this report seriously , such as the question of where costs should lie . Football clubs have to contribute to the cost of policing matches , and Wimbledon has to contribute to the cost of policing tennis , and yet here are organisations costing tens of millions of pounds in policing costs each year , and doing so as though this was their own private fiefdom . It strikes me as a very odd way of behaving . I also welcome the hon . Gentleman ’s approach to the Defending Democracy Taskforce and the support he has offered for it today . Let me just answer the hon . Gentleman ’s questions briefly . We will be discussing with DLUHC — as he knows , it is an important participant in this discussion — and other relevant departments , including the Ministry of Justice , how to take these recommendations forward and which to adopt . I am sure he understands that I will update the House in the usual way at the appropriate time . I am also grateful for his support on that . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . I personally find it reassuring that this matter is being debated by two gallant hon . and right hon . Members — my right hon . Friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) — who first met , I believe , fighting extremism in a foreign country . I wish to draw particular attention to Lord Walney ’s recommendation 20 on requiring the organisers of repeated protest marches to contribute to the cost of policing . Last Sunday , the relatives of the wartime Telegraphist Air Gunners held their commemoration service in a nearby church , rather than at the Fleet Air Arm memorial on the seafront at Lee - on - the - Solent , because to do the latter would have involved a road closure and policing for which their little association would have had to pay . Even if one says there should be a wider regime where political protest is concerned , after one large protest on a particular cause , the repetition of the same protest week in , week out — possibly for intimidatory purposes — should certainly not be cost - free to the organisers . The challenges we are seeing with different churches and communities across the land are where individuals organise protests surrounding areas that are used for different purposes , and that is exactly why this report is so important . When people assemble at sites that should otherwise be free for groups to associate in , whether that is churches or village halls , the important thing is that our democracy is able to be performed there . What my right hon . Friend spoke about may not sound like part of the democratic process , in the sense that it is not party political — it is not a ballot box or an election — but it is part of that process because it is about people getting together , with people able to associate together , feel a place in our community and know that they are part of a rich tradition , all the way from those Fleet Air Arm Telegraphists to those serving today . That is why this report is so important , and why we will be putting so much effort into it . I call the SNP spokesperson . On the SNP Benches , we stand firmly against intimidation , violence and extremism anywhere . We stand against antisemitism , Islamophobia and hate in all its pernicious forms . But this report goes nowhere near tackling the causes of hate and violence . To recommend — as it does in many different ways — clamping down further on people ’s right to protest is entirely inappropriate . Just yesterday , Liberty won a notable victory at the High Court . The Tory anti - protest laws have led to substantially increased exposure to criminal sanctions on the part of protesters exercising their civil rights , and the court found that the Home Secretary had failed to consult groups who may be affected . Last year , when we debated the statutory instrument on which that court case was founded , I criticised the wide and vague definitions within that SI , which led the Government to that challenge . We certainly do not need more illiberal legislation — that goes against our democratic principles , does it not ? It is in that context that we have Lord Walney ’s doorstop of anti - democratic measures in front of us today . I note that Lord Walney has a serious conflict of interest in this matter , as a paid adviser to defence and oil and gas interests — a matter of public record . To say that there should be further restrictions on groups such as Just Stop Oil or anti - war demonstrators smacks of a conflict of interest . It certainly strikes me , as somebody who has been on many protests over the years , that the author of this report must have been on very few , based on his lack of understanding of such protests , how they are organised and the types of people who attend them . I also ask the Minister if he will take this opportunity to clarify what the Prime Minister said the other week when he put people who support the democratic self - determination of their country in the same bracket as those who support extremist regimes around the world . Scottish nationalists are not extremists . We have been asking for our independence for a very long time and in democratic ways . I also wish to—[Interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , it is a very long report . I also wish to criticise in particular recommendation 4 , which says : “ Serious incel - related violence in the UK should not be routinely categorised as terrorism ” , which I think is extremely worrying . I would ask the Minister to reconsider that . In the online space , I also feel there are a lot of contradictions , as the report says that platforms should not use artificial intelligence but that the police should be empowered to do so . The hon . Lady and I have a slightly different perception on many things — that is true — but certainly on liberty . Over the past few weeks and months , I have seen members of our communities terrified to walk the streets of our country . I have seen people , particularly from the Jewish community , but from many others as well , fearful that the radicalisation and violence threatened by some of the protests is threatening them . I have also spoken to friends in the Muslim community who are terrified that their children will be radicalised into groups that advocate violence . I think it is the job of this Government — of any British Government — to defend the interests of all our citizens . I make absolutely no apology for standing up against extremism ; whether it seeks to target Jews , young Muslims or anybody else , it is simply unacceptable . The suggestions that Lord Walney has set out are just that — suggestions . They are suggestions that the Government will look at , consider and come back to , and I will update the House as soon as we have been able to do that . However , if liberty means anything , it means the ability to travel freely to the synagogue on Saturday , to the mosque on Friday , and to the church on Sunday . It means being free from intimidation . It means the ability to enjoy life in the United Kingdom free of those pressures and terrors . This Government will always stand up for those freedoms . Having organised a number of demonstrations myself , I am nervous at the prospect of being invited to contribute financially to their policing . Nevertheless , clearly there are public order issues and issues of great public nuisance , not least to retailers , commercial businesses and ordinary people going about their business . When there are a repeated series of demonstrations , may I suggest that the Government explore the possibility of confining them to a static demonstration , be it at Speakers ’ Corner or elsewhere ? My right hon . Friend makes a good point , touching on some of the issues covered by Lord Walney ’s report . He highlights the important aspect that , time and again , we have seen protests stretching and spreading , and being allowed to effectively close down large areas of a city or town , when in reality the point is made long before the march . The Minister knows that I have fought extremism since I have been in this place , and I will continue to do so . I fought against it in Birmingham , over the Trojan horse schools matter , and I continue to do so . I deplore right - wing extremism . Having had death threats made against me , I have gone to the police , to the House and to the Independent Office for Police Conduct . The latest report from the West Midlands Police says that they are not prepared to take any action , so I will proceed further with the IOPC . The report raises the issue of the protection of Members . When Members do not get protection , as we saw outside schools in Birmingham , Hall Green , or when candidates were intimidated in Batley and Spen , it is not appropriate . I hope that the report will lead to some conclusions on that . I pay a huge tribute to the hon . Gentleman . He has been a voice of sanity and courage for many years , on many of these issues . His leadership on the Trojan horse scandal was inspirational , and his voice of clarity , standing up for members of the British public who do not wish to see their children or themselves pushed into supporting extremist ideology , has been an example to many of us . I am enormously grateful for his support and I would be delighted to work with him on the appalling issues he has faced himself . Lord Walney has come up with a marvellous report . I am not surprised : I knew him when he was a Member of Parliament and he was an excellent Member of Parliament too . His report talks about preventing protests from going ahead on account of the “ cumulative impact ” of serious disruption . He is right to identify that ; it is intimidatory and , as my right hon . Friend the Minister has already said , many Jewish people , Muslims and others are frightened of going on the streets because of it . If the report now leads to more legislation by this Government , how certain is the Minister that individual police forces , in particular the Metropolitan police , will implement those new laws ? My hon . Friend will be delighted to know that the noble Lord Walney is still a Member of Parliament , but he has the misfortune to sit in red , not green . The truth is that many police forces are taking effective action already . It is sad that some of those who hold the office of police and crime commissioner do not always feel that it is their role to insist that that leadership is offered ; in that case , we are , of course , speaking of London . We may need legislation , but not necessarily . At the moment , we need decisions . Where there is a threat to democracy and to people giving service in public life , surely the most effective response will always be one that commands the support of all those who are part of that democratic process . We can only do that by building consensus . The Government have tabled late amendments to the Criminal Justice Bill involving the policing of demonstrations , some of which include the removal of defences of lawfulness . We do not have a consensus around those amendments . Will the Minister go back to the Home Office , get the agreement of his Department to pause the amendments and convene talks involving all parties to see if we can build genuine consensus in this House , and beyond ? That is surely the best and most effective threat to the extremists . I am rather enjoying the idea that the former Deputy Chief Whip is now telling me that we need to build consensus ; that was certainly not the impression I got when he held that office . [ Interruption . ] The recovery is going extremely well , if that is the case . In reality , of course we try to work across all parts of the House and try to build consensus , but I am here to serve the British people not the whims of other hon . Members . I welcome the report and thank Lord Walney for his excellent work . It contains 78 references to social media , which of course has been instrumental in allowing extremists not only to organise but to spread their message . The social media algorithms reward radicalism , fake news and division . Lord Walney makes some excellent recommendations , but does the Minister agree that it is the anonymity of online accounts that is particularly pernicious ? When we speak in real life , our free speech comes with accountability , but that is not the case online because there are so many anonymous accounts . Should the Government look at whether anonymous accounts are appropriate in a democracy , as supported by my hon . Friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) ? Cracking down on such accounts would go a long way towards sorting out the problem . I welcome my hon . Friend ’s approach to this , and to many other aspects of social media and online harms . She has been an example to many of us in how campaigns can be led to include , not exclude , and she has made her voice heard extremely clearly . All of us in this House will have had that Jekyll and Hyde experience of meeting someone in person who has previously been utterly vitriolic online — like seeing a country parson walking down the lane , and then discovering from their social media that Satan himself could not have come up with more bile . It is quite remarkable . My hon . Friend makes a very good point that we need a little bit of recognition about who we all are — not just elected Members but others who are campaigning in favour or against a political issue . By and large , people approach issues in our democracy from a position of interest in the common good and support for each other , their families , communities and neighbours , but the treatment that somehow comes out of people when they are anonymous can be simply vile . Earlier this week , I met a female chief fire officer who explained to me some of the intimidation , harassment and abuse that she had experienced , alongside some of her female colleagues in senior leadership roles in our emergency services , up to and including credible death threats . As far as I can tell , that is for no other reason than that they have the audacity to be women in senior leadership roles in our emergency services . The Walney reports considers the intimidation of academics and journalists , but I urge the Minister to speak to colleagues across Government to see what other protections we might need to offer those people doing incredibly important work , who under no circumstances should be subject to that type of intimidation ? I welcome the hon . Lady ’s comments ; she makes some very good points . Yesterday I was talking to Festus Akinbusoye about the racism he faced as police and crime commissioner . Whether people are in a public - facing role in our emergency services — our ambulance , police or fire crews , for example — or they hold an elected position , from Prime Minister to parish councillor , the idea that they should face any hostility at all is unacceptable , but the idea that they should be targeted because of their sex , race , gender or religion is even more unacceptable . This country is extraordinary for many reasons . One thing that I love about it is the fact that many people from many different backgrounds have found their home here and have found their voice here and made it strongly . The transformation that has made to our country for the good is remarkable . I am hugely proud of that . To see that voice silenced by people , as the hon . Lady says , because they happen to be a female fire officer , is simply unacceptable , and I will certainly talk to the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire to see what more we can do . Does my right hon . Friend accept that at the next election it would be wrong for parliamentary candidates to be intimidated into not disclosing their home addresses on their nomination papers ? If we change the conventions on that , we will be giving in to these threats . Does he also accept that if a person hires a public hall for a protest meeting , they are liable for public liability insurance ? Might it not be better to say that if someone is organising a large public event in a public open space , they should also be liable for public insurance ? Would that not be a better way of doing things , rather than expecting fees to be paid to the police ? As usual , I will listen very carefully to my hon . Friend ’s suggestions . As for addresses , I do not think the election system will change between now and the second half of the year , as we have now learned . I look forward to standing in that election , whenever it comes , and for my address to be recorded as an address in the Tonbridge constituency . There are aspects of this report that I welcome . For example , the careful cataloguing of the harassment and intimidation of gender critical feminists across the United Kingdom is a valuable contribution to our public debate . However , I consider the recommendations to be largely far too draconian . The Joint Committee on Human Rights , which I chair , has repeatedly stressed that public authorities , including the Government and the police , are under a negative obligation not to interfere with the right to peaceful protest , and a positive obligation to facilitate peaceful protest . Yesterday ’s High Court ruling , which was mentioned by my hon . Friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , gave a very clear message that , in regulating protest , the Government must act within the law , and they must not pursue an anti - protest agenda at the expense of human rights , particularly freedom of expression and freedom of assembly . I would like a cast - iron assurance from the Minister that protection of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and the right to protest will be at the heart of the Government ’s consideration of the report ’s recommendations . I pay tribute to the hon . and learned Lady for her courage in speaking out on women ’s rights , which she has done with enormous dignity and integrity , when others have sought to silence her by shouting her down , closing her out , or using genuinely quite vile language against her . She will , I hope , excuse me when I say that I have had the misfortune to see what some people have said to her on social media , and they are things that should not be said to anyone . The hon . and learned Lady ’s approach is pragmatic , as usual , and I am grateful for that . This is a challenging report . The points that she makes about our having the civil rights to assemble , debate and discuss are correct . This Government are not trying to — and never will try to — silence the British people . Hearing the voices of our fellow citizens in the ways in which they choose to express them is , of course , part of a democracy , but the ways in which they choose to express them is also mitigated by the ways in which we choose to live as a community . Those choices we call laws , as she knows . My hon . and learned Friend is absolutely right in holding all of us to the principles that we have agreed in advance . What we are looking to do is ensure that those prior agreements — those laws — reflect the reality that everybody has the right to express their views and to live freely in our society , and that extremism and extremists have no place in it . This is a welcome statement . I have previously discussed some of these issues with Lord Walney . He is an incredibly thoughtful individual , and this is an incredibly thoughtful report . Some of those ridiculous smears that we heard earlier were completely unnecessary . As somebody who believes in freedom of protest , do I believe that there should be an unlimited , totally unfettered right to cause huge disruption to the majority of people who just want to go about their lives , no matter the economic cost ? That includes , for example , Suffolk constabulary having its resources pulled to help out with the management of these protests . No , I do not think that there should be a totally unfettered , unlimited right , so I would welcome it if this report could help to address that . Does my right hon . Friend agree that , when it comes to hate — be that anti - Muslim hate or some of the antisemitism we have seen in recent months — it should be tackled and be seen to be tackled as it is happening , not simply after the event ? My hon . Friend is right . We have seen the police taking some very good action on some of these protests . I think about 600 or 700 people — I might be slightly out on the numbers , so forgive me — have now been arrested following the protests that we have regularly seen on these weekends . About 50 or so have been arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 , which is just to say that these are not small arrests , but serious crimes with which the police are dealing . I would like to make my next point extremely clearly . It is a point that was made to me by a middle - class Muslim family — not in my constituency — who have been friends of mine for many years . One of them said to me something that struck home very hard . They have been trying to protect their teenage kids , as we all do , from the kind of hatred and inspiration to hatred that is now all too prevalent online , through social media and sometimes other means . They do what responsible parents do : they make sure that their kids are home at a reasonable hour , and that they are part of community groups that support their lifestyle and values . Then they see broadcast on national media the kind of despicable hatred that inspires people to radicalisation and extremism and , sadly , they say , “ It is not your son who is likely to be radicalised into Islamist hatred ; it is mine . ” I am afraid that he is absolutely right . It is the responsibility of this Government , and any British Government , to protect the interests of every British citizen . Frankly , it would be racist and deeply unacceptable to consider that the radicalisation of one child is worth more or less than that of another . It is not , and it is wrong . That is why we will stand up against it . That is why , as my hon . Friend said , some of these protests are not just public order offences , but incitement to radicalisation and hatred , and they should be treated as such immediately . I wish to put it on record that things have been said today , on both sides of the House , with which I agree , but that fundamentally I disagree with this report . I also wish to put on record my commitment to the protection of democracy and to the hard - won rights that we enjoy today , but this report contributes nothing to those rights — in fact , it undermines them . This morning , I spoke to a legal mind and expert on these matters who , last night , had the pleasure of reading all 300 pages of the report . He told me that it was broad , sprawling , poorly written , littered with errors , not proofread , entirely confused and , frankly , ludicrous . I shall provide an example , on which the Minister may wish to comment on . Paragraph 1.12 of the report said the Government can “ convene a process to examine the potential issue of juries acquitting defendants and judges applying laws differently when they are transgressed in the name of progressive causes like climate change and anti - racism ” . We have enjoyed the right to trial by jury in this country since before Magna Carta , and this report is undermining that . It is a sham report , and I hope the Government understand that . As the hon . Member will understand , I will not answer every single page of the report at this stage . I will look at all the pages that have been submitted . In fact , I have looked at many of them already . The reality is that this will take a little bit of work , so I hope that he will understand . The Minister talked earlier about the difference between online and offline , but for many of us there is now no distinction in the intimidation and aggression that we face . If liberty means anything for elected officials , it means being able to take time off and go to the park . Last week , a man made my toddler cry because he would not leave us alone in the street , and was instead determined to call me a child killer in front of her because he did not agree with my views on abortion , a matter that I have debated with many others in my constituency . I should say that he was not a constituent . I am not alone in being targeted on my own — many Members present have talked about it — but the parliamentary police tell me that such behaviour is completely normal and acceptable within a democracy , that this man had a right to express his opinion , that MPs should expect to be contacted wherever they are in the street and whoever is with them , and that if our families are distressed that is just unfortunate . The report talks about a Speaker ’s Conference . We have an election in the offing . Many of us have spent years encouraging a diversity of candidates to come forward , particularly women with children . Does the Minister agree that we need an urgent Speaker ’s Conference to get the balance right in how we can all protect our families , because we are parents and carers as well as politicians ? I offer my deepest sympathies to the hon . Lady , because that is completely unacceptable . I would be happy to take that up with her afterwards and have a specific conversation about it . I do not think that a Speaker ’s Conference is necessary right now because we have set up the defending democracy taskforce , and the hon . Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) and hon . Members from other parties are already on it , as is Mr Speaker , represented through the parliamentary head of security , Alison Giles . We have effectively the same thing being assembled , with the ability to draw on information from the intelligence services , GCHQ and the police . While I agree entirely with the spirit of the hon . Lady ’s suggestion , I merely argue that we are already doing it , and I know that the hon . Member for Barnsley Central and others will pull me up if they do not think that we are getting it right . I stand against extremism , hate and violence in all forms , but I still think that the report is extraordinarily dangerous , draconian and undemocratic . The pretence that it is in any way independent is totally undermined by a quick glance at the entry in the Register of Lords ’ Interests of its author , who works for lobby companies that represent arms manufacturers and fossil fuel companies . Will the Minister at the very least reassure us that the Government will reject recommendation 27 , which undermines jury trials in cases related to climate change and anti - racism , and instead uphold our great legal tradition of allowing juries to decide as they see fit ? Will he also accept the High Court ’s judgment in Liberty ’s case against the Home Office and abandon any further restrictions on the right to peaceful protest , and instead protect all our rights to freedom of expression and association ? We are reviewing the decision in the courts yesterday , and we will look at whether or not to appeal . I thank the Minister for his kind words about Lord Walney , who reminds a friend to many on the Labour Benches , including me . London bears a disproportionate burden of the protests and countering extremism , so how will the Minister ensure that the Met ’s operational costs are met by this Government for the rising challenges outlined in the report ? Also , he mentioned protecting all British nationals . Will he meet with people from Hong Kong who have British national overseas status , who are increasingly the target of Chinese Communist party agents in the UK , including with those who live in my constituency who are very concerned about their safety and security ? The hon . Member knows that he and I share a strong interest in the BNO community in the United Kingdom . Hongkongers being targeted by state actors is deeply wrong . One of the things that I have focused on in the period for which I have been the Security Minister is the threat of foreign states here . We know that China has acted deeply wrongly by threatening individuals here in the United Kingdom , and we will never stand for it . We have been extremely clear that Hongkongers or BNOs are first and foremost British nationals . We will defend their rights , as we will defend everyone ’s rights . I have already met them , and I will continue to meet them . They are fantastic members of our society , and they are welcome . I thank the Minister for his statement . I completely agree with a lot of what he said . As somebody who has been harassed a lot , I am against harassment , discrimination and all of that , but let me ask a question on procedure , because I think his responses today are superior to the report itself . I queried the Table Office about unopposed returns , and was told that they are essentially a way for the Government to publish a document or papers so that , according to paragraph 7.32 of “ Erskine May ” , they can be protected by statute . Unopposed returns can not be debated or voted on , and there is no opportunity for Members to object . Will the Minister explain to the House why the Government used that procedure , and are they scared that the report will not stand up to scrutiny , whether from the public or within this Chamber ? I thank the hon . Lady for her very kind comments about my responses . I was somewhat surprised to hear them , but I am delighted none the less . [ Laughter . ] I see I am not alone in my surprise . It is perfectly standard to introduce an independent report conducted in order to help the Government through this process , in order to prevent any form of vexatious prosecution . We were not expecting any ; this is merely a formula that is very often used to afford parliamentary privilege to a report . I thank the Minister for his statement . I know that he takes the issue seriously , and I hope that he will agree that liberty also means the right to protest . That is a cornerstone of our democracy , and people have the right to protest in a peaceful and respectful manner . A number of these protests go through my Vauxhall constituency , and police are often abstracted to cover them . We know that protests can be difficult and complex , and remain an operational issue . I note some of the report ’s recommendations , but does he agree that for this to work Ministers and politicians must respect the operational independence of all police forces ? The hon . Lady is right that the police are operationally independent , but they are not independent of the considerations of the people they serve — in her case , the people of Vauxhall . She knows that the people she represents have a legitimate voice in discussing policing and having their representation heard ; indeed , she champions them in this place , and the Mayor of London is supposed to champion them through the policing bodies . As she also knows , it is important to balance different rights . Of course there is a right to protest . People have a fundamental democratic right to raise their voice in opposition to things that they find objectionable . People also have a simple right to be able to feed their family , take their kids to school , or attend a place of worship . When the two are in conflict , it is right that the police set a reasonable balance . I think Lord Walney is suggesting that that balance should be looked at carefully . Points of Order On a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Today , the Equality and Human Rights Commission , the country ’s equalities watchdog , launched an investigation into the Department for Work and Pensions over its potentially discriminatory treatment of sick and disabled people within the social security system . This is absolutely unprecedented . The investigation has been escalated following two years of the EHRC trying to agree remedial action with the Department , following the section 23 notice issued to it by the EHRC regarding potentially discriminatory action against disabled people . The EHRC will investigate whether the Department has acted unlawfully by failing to protect disabled people over a number of years , including by failing to prevent their deaths by suicide or other means . With a recess fast approaching , the next DWP orals over a month away , and discussions this week in the Chamber about the importance of a duty of candour for all public servants , has Mr Speaker been given information about when we can expect to question the Government regarding this ? I thank the hon . Lady for giving notice of her point of order . She raises the issue of whether a Minister will come to the House to make a statement . I am not aware that Mr Speaker has received any such notification , but the hon . Lady has put her views on the record and I know that those on the Treasury Bench will feed back her comments . On a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , the DWP ’s permanent secretary told the Work and Pensions Committee this morning that he was unaware of the nature of the Equality and Human Rights Commission ’s challenge to his Department , but in January last year he told the Select Committee that the negotiations with EHRC were “ going well ” and an agreement would be secured . The Secretary of State also told the Committee in November 2022 that negotiations were “ constructive ” and that he expected agreement to be reached . It is wholly unprecedented that a full formal investigation is now under way . The ministerial code makes clear that the Secretary of State is responsible for “ correcting any inadvertent error at the earliest opportunity ” , and that “ Ministers should … require civil servants who give evidence before Parliamentary Committees … to be as helpful as possible in providing accurate , truthful and full information ” . Has the Secretary of State requested a statement to set out why the House has inadvertently not had access to an accurate representation of the negotiations ? How can we as Members ensure that the House is updated on why those negotiations have failed and on the impact for disabled people and for the Treasury of this full EHRC investigation ? I am grateful to the hon . Member for his point of order and for giving notice of it . Obviously the Chair is not responsible for the accuracy or otherwise of evidence given to Select Committees ; again , I know those on the Treasury Bench will take on board his comments about a Minister coming to make a statement . The other way that he may wish to get further clarification is through the Select Committee itself , given what he has said about the evidence being given to it . On a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . With apologies , I used some figures I was not entirely sure of . I have now had them confirmed and just wanted to correct the record very slightly . I said that there had been more than 600 arrests from those protests , and that is correct , but it was 15 , not 50 , under the Terrorism Act 2000 . My apologies . I am grateful to the Minister for correcting the record so quickly . Thank you . Immigration and Asylum Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order No . 23 ) I beg to move , That leave be given to bring in a Bill to make provision for the annual approval by the House of Commons of maximum numbers in respect of immigration and asylum ; to provide that asylum may only be granted to individuals identified as refugees by the UN Refugee Agency , other than in specified circumstances ; and for connected purposes . I am delighted to be bringing in this Bill . The British people want Parliament and their representatives to get to grips with immigration , both illegal and legal . That is a widespread conviction held by constituents across parties and across regions . According to YouGov , 64 % of voters think immigration has been too high over the last 10 years , and only 6 % believe it has been too low . On the Island , according to my most recent survey of 2,000 constituents , it is the second most important issue after the NHS . My Bill helps to reinforce parliamentary sovereignty , encourages transparency in decision making and focuses responsibility on Members of Parliament , and in doing so helps to restore faith in Government and in Parliament . We have made a considerable success of immigration in the past 50 years , in the post - war period , and there is an accepted case that moderate migration is a good thing for our country . I am hugely proud to be English and British , but I am half - immigrant myself ; I do not necessarily think of myself often in those terms , but my mum ended up in Dresden in a displaced persons camp after world war two . For two centuries , her ancestors came from the Russian empire . They were a mix of German and , as I understand it , Polish and Ukrainian ancestry and farmed near Zhitomir , 60 miles west of Kyiv . The other half of me is solidly English . Wherever we come from , however , there is a shared sense that migration should be moderate and controlled . This Government are doing more than any other in recent years ; we hear today that the removals of illegal people are up 25 % . The Rwanda scheme is due to start later this year , whatever people think of it , and we have growing numbers of return agreements with other nations , but I think we need something more permanent , because all of that requires political will . For me , the only way that ultimately we will solve this issue and give our voters and our constituents confidence in it is for Parliament to take responsibility on itself to set annual legal limits for legal migration , including for asylum . The only way MPs will be serious about this issue is if we have to look our constituents in the eye and explain our actions . There will be no hiding behind quangos or behind agencies . My Bill would require the Government to present a figure or range of figures to Parliament . MPs would have access to the same data , so that we and the British people could see what each figure would deliver in terms of costs and benefits and what the effect would be on housing , on public services , on the economy and on social cohesion . It is extraordinary that the debate has happened thus far without reference to many of those important issues , as if somehow immigration can be debated without talking about housing , education or healthcare provision . Either way , at the end of the day , MPs will own that figure and they will have to explain it to their constituents . That is called democracy , and in my mind it is a good thing . If there are emergencies , such as Hong Kong or Ukraine , Ministers can come back and ask for a waiver for specific numbers , in line with our international obligations . The critical point here is that I am not stipulating a figure or plucking one out of thin air . This is the principle of parliamentary sovereignty , which I would have thought we should all as parliamentarians want to support . In theory , the Labour party could say , “ We want 1 million - plus a year on migration . ” The Lib Dems — they are meant to be here to oppose this Bill , but they are so concerned about it that I can not see a single one of them here to speak in opposition — or the SNP , who are here in force , could suggest 2 million . In theory , Parliament can decide what it wants ; this Bill is about giving power back to Parliament . For me , this debate touches on wider issues about parliamentarians passing their powers and responsibilities to others . In scandal after scandal , we see experts failing and politicians effectively having to cover for them , whether it is the Post Office scandal or the contaminated blood scandal . The answer is not less power to Parliament , or more quangos or experts ; it is more debate , more scrutiny and more transparency , so that people can see what is happening in their name , and they can test and judge the people who make those decisions . Granted , if there were a Conservative Government , the practical outcome of my Bill would be to lower legal migration from its current levels to something — dare I say it — in line with our manifesto commitments . However , it would also allow greater thought on what our nation wants and needs . My hon . Friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil O'Brien ) and my right hon . Friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , in their excellent Centre for Policy Studies report , demolished many of the lazy arguments about migration , such as that it is automatically associated with economic growth — arguably , the era of mass migration has seen slower economic growth per capita . We know it exacerbates pressure on social and other housing and health services . By historical standards , our build rate is pretty healthy at the moment , but it is dwarfed because of the high net migration . My Bill would force us to think whether we really need to grant visas for jobs British people could do with encouragement or higher wages . One of the great ironies of this debate is that large - scale immigration comes at the price of suppressing wages of some of the poorest people in this country . One would have thought that the SNP , the Lib Dems and the Labour party , who profess to care for working people , would consider some of those arguments . Rather than hoovering up computer programmers , doctors , dentists and care workers from other countries , why not train up some more ourselves ? My Bill would also make civil servants think more carefully about getting the numbers correct . The Department of Health and Social Care forecast that 6,000 people would use the health and social care visa route . In fact , 146,000 people did last year , with 203,000 dependants — a population one and a half times the size of Portsmouth . We need to think about the impact of the decisions we are making when civil servants are getting the numbers so phenomenally , dramatically wrong . I would like to touch briefly on asylum as well . We have granted asylum to nearly half a million people since 2015 — an extraordinary number . There are nine safe and legal routes into this country ; there were 10 at the time , because that included Syria . However , to prevent a pull factor and to ensure that people have confidence that refugees are refugees , I would like this Bill to have all refugees coming via United Nations programmes . I do not think that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees behaved particularly well on the Rwanda ruling , but it is still the only global body that looks after refugees . My plan would see our country take only bona fide UN - approved refugees that come from genuinely war - torn areas . Again , that would strengthen people ’s confidence in the system and give the added benefit of cutting back on our own asylum system , which , I am sad to say , is increasingly unfit for purpose . What sane system gives 50 % of people from Albania asylum when they come from a safe European country ? It is simply not credible . My Bill enhances democracy , accountability and transparency — that is certainly its intention . I am grateful that SNP Members have turned up , and I wish the Liberals had — apparently they were also going to speak against the motion — but I say respectfully to those who oppose the Bill that they are opposing parliamentary scrutiny , opposing the handing back of powers to Members of Parliament and opposing transparency , and they are setting themselves against the will of the people of Scotland and Britain . We need more transparency in our national decision making ; we need to question civil servants and experts more , not less ; and we need greater scrutiny and a bigger role for Parliament to allow MPs and the public a level of scrutiny that enables good government . That is the purpose of the Bill : to give Parliament the power to set migration numbers . The British people want a fair but robust immigration system . They are right . My new law would deliver that and ensure that we , Members of Parliament , are answerable to our people . I stand to speak to this motion on behalf of the SNP — but not on behalf of the Lib Dems , who have clearly chickened out and run away , and not for the first time . I am very proud to say that I support immigration , which is an economic good . We thank people for coming here and contributing their best talents and skills to this country — they contribute so very much . It is an act of absolutely bizarre economic damage to try to restrict their numbers in the way that the hon . Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) has set out in his ten - minute rule motion . The issue that we have had for many years in Scotland has been emigration , not immigration . Immigration is an essential part of a thriving economy . Scotland is set to experience considerable population decline in the absence of net international migration , and that will have a significant impact on our economy , because the people who come to work here contribute . They pay the pensions of our older people , they look after people , and they contribute and bring their skills to our economy . They are welcome and we should not tell them otherwise . The hon . Member ’s Bill , in seeking to put a cap on the number of people coming , should really be entitled the “ Cutting off our nose to spite our face ” Bill . A cap on numbers is entirely illogical and impractical . If he said the cap was 1,000 people , he would shut the door on the 1,001st , regardless of what talent and skills they may bring and the economic benefits or otherwise they may generate . That is absolutely illogical . He mentioned that people bring him their concerns about migration , but the evidence is that people consistently get migration numbers wrong . It is our job as MPs to inform people , not to pander to some of their worst prejudices . It is also the case that people in areas with the lowest migration seem bizarrely to fear it most , whereas those who are fortunate enough to live in constituencies such as Glasgow Central welcome migration because they see its benefits . It is absolutely bizarre . In work published in recent days , Migration Policy Scotland says that people ’s views of migration remain more positive than negative . The hon . Member does not speak for us when he talks about the will of the people of Scotland . He does not and can not speak for the people of Scotland , who thank those who come here to work and contribute in whichever way they do . The hon . Member also talked about pressure on health services . Again , the reality is that we are more likely to be treated by a migrant than to be in the queue next to one . People come here to work in our health and social care sector , and we thank them for it , because the sector faces significant shortages and we need them desperately . It is not the case that people migrating to this country suppress wage growth . In fact , countries with higher immigration than us have higher wage growth than the pathetic and insipid wage growth that broke Brexit Britain has had , so he is wrong about that . We have significant labour shortages in the UK as a result of the Conservatives ’ ridiculous Brexit policies . The Office for National Statistics says that a third of UK businesses are experiencing labour shortages , which has an impact on productivity . Sectors such as hospitality , farming , health and social care , professional services and scientific and technical services are crying out for skills — skills that we do not have . If the hon . Member had come here to argue for further investment in education and universities , which the Tories have cut back over many years , I would have been interested in that argument , but that is not what he is saying . He is saying , “ Turn off the tap and everything will be fine , ” which could not be further from the truth . Let me turn to the point about the graduate visa and international students . My Glasgow Central constituency is the one that most benefits from international students . I see very clearly that international students bring significant benefit . There has been much chat about the graduate visa and , although the Migration Advisory Committee did not approve of its introduction in the first place , it has said that the UK Government should keep it . Unlike any other UK Government policy , that one has actually been a roaring success , having met and exceeded its targets , so of course , perversely , Tory Members want to scrap it . You couldnae make this up . The changes that the Conservatives have made in removing dependants from visas have already knocked 0.5 % off our GDP . If they continue down that road , they will see further economic damage , as well as significant damage to our educational institutions , because the fact that those institutions require international students has been built into their model over many years . The policy also benefits our students , who can sit next to international students in classes , and learn from them and grow . International students bring so much by way of their experience , as well as helping financially . The UK is already 300,000 workers short as a result of the Conservatives ’ damaging Brexit policies . That shortfall is not being made up because of the poor decisions that the Government are making in pursuing the end of free movement , which the Labour party also believes in . They are damaging the economy of Scotland , which did not vote for Brexit , because of their ideological obsession . The hon . Member has talked about the role of the UNHCR . I am not sure that he has actually spoken to the UNHCR , because what he has described is not its job — that is not what it does . Its role is not to determine who is a refugee and who is not . In very limited circumstances , the UNHCR operates a resettlement policy , but it says itself that resettlement is “ the rare exception ” : it is available to fewer than 1 % of refugees worldwide , and a very small number have arrived in the UK through resettlement programmes . That is why we have an asylum system in the country just now . It is very poorly run , and if the hon . Gentleman wants to make an argument about reforming the Home Office and its terrible policies , I would support him , but that is not what he is saying . He seems to be suggesting that the Home Office ’s immigration policy areas should be removed altogether and handed over to an international organisation to determine . Again , I do not think that is quite what he means , but that is what he is saying . The UNCHR has a very important role . It carries out international functions ; it has also very damningly criticised the UK Government ’s immigration policies , including the Rwanda plans and others . However , the hon . Gentleman is asking the UNHCR to do a job that is not its job , which just points to the ludicrousness and unenforceability of the Bill that he seeks to introduce today . It is simply not practical . The Bill speaks to a very small and narrow group of people within the Conservative party and in the rest of the UK : people who want to close the doors , pull up the drawbridge and let nobody into little Brexit Britain . The hon . Gentleman does not speak for Scotland . Scotland wants to be part of the world and to decide these policies for ourselves — yes , to have a migration policy that decides who comes in and who does not , but not to shut the door , nor to pretend that by doing so , Britain will somehow be some special little land that it once was . Britain has always welcomed people from around the world , and also has a legacy of going out into the world — empire and everything else . We have those links . We want Scotland to be that international country , but Britain is holding us back , preventing us from allowing people into our country and having the migration policy that we need . I have supported the devolution of migration policy , but I can not wait for the day when we get full control over all policies , so that Scotland ’s economy and future can be in Scotland ’s hands , rather than those of a Westminster Government who do not see our needs , do not recognise what we as a country want , and do not speak for us , either at home or on the international stage . Question put ( Standing Order No . 23 ) . Lee Anderson Caroline Ansell Sarah Atherton Bob Blackman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Miriam Cates Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey James Davies Philip Davies Sarah Dines Steve Double Philip Dunne David Evennett Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Chris Grayling Chris Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Philip Hollobone Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt David Jones Danny Kruger Pauline Latham Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Rachel Maclean Karl McCartney Robin Millar Nigel Mills Lia Nici Neil O'Brien Mark Pawsey Andrew Percy Will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul Scully Bob Seely Greg Smith Henry Smith Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Charles Walker Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Kelly Tolhurst Dr Caroline Johnson Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Claire Hanna Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Ben Lake David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil John McNally Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Anne McLaughlin Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O'Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Peter Grant Gavin Newlands The House divided : Ayes 74 , Noes 49 . Question accordingly agreed to . Ordered , That Bob Seely , Robert Jenrick , Danny Kruger , Marco Longhi , Lia Nici , Nick Fletcher , Dr Caroline Johnson , Sir Edward Leigh and Henry Smith present the Bill . Bob Seely accordingly presented the Bill . Bill read the First time ; to be read a Second time on Friday 14 June , and to be printed ( Bill 223 ) . Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism I beg to move , That the draft Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( Risk of Being Drawn into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2024 , which were laid before this House on 7 May , be approved . This instrument , which was laid before Parliament on 7 May 2024 , relates to Prevent in Scotland . After the approval of both Chambers last year , the Prevent duty guidance for specified authorities in England and Wales came into effect on 31 December 2023 . As many Members will know , Prevent is one of the pillars of the Contest strategy , the United Kingdom ’s counter - terrorism strategy which has been replicated around the world . The aim of Prevent is to stop people becoming terrorists or supporting terrorism . It also extends to supporting the rehabilitation and disengagement of those already involved in terrorism . Put simply , Prevent is an early intervention programme to help keep all of us safe . To do so effectively , it requires frontline sectors across society , including education , healthcare , local authorities , criminal justice agencies and the police , to support this mission . That is why we have the Prevent duty set out in the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 . It sits alongside long - established duties on professionals to protect people from a range of other harms , such as involvement in gangs or physical and sexual exploitation . The Prevent duty helps to ensure people susceptible to radicalisation are offered timely interventions before it is too late . My right hon . Friend will know that I was the security Minister who introduced the Prevent duty he has just set out , the first time there was a legislative requirement on the organisations he described to participate in that programme . He will also know there has been a review of Prevent by Mr Shawcross and that that has made some useful suggestions about how it can be refined . My right hon . Friend may well speak about that in his speech , but I would like him to focus particularly on how that affects the Prevent duty . Perhaps the best way for me to start this response is by paying tribute to my right hon . Friend , who was instrumental in ensuring we got the Contest strategy through and in holding the Department to account to make sure that it not only delivered when it began but that it continued to deliver . It is a hugely important part of our protection and I will indeed be coming on to Sir William ’s work . It is worth saying that Sir William is a fantastic public servant who has done brilliant work for our country in many ways , and his recent review was one of those many areas in which he has contributed . It is a great pleasure for me to be able to put on record my tribute and thanks to him for all his work . As I have said , the Prevent duty helps ensure people who are susceptible to radicalisation are offered timely interventions before it is too late . None of this is easy because , as there is no single track to a person being radicalised , there are many factors which can , either alone or combined , lead to someone subscribing to an extremist ideology , which in some cases can lead to terrorism . These factors often include exposure to radicalising influences , real and perceived grievances , and an individual ’s own susceptibility . The Prevent duty guidance exists to help those working in frontline sectors to navigate these challenging situations . The 2015 Act requires specified authorities to have regard to this guidance . It is challenging but we must always strive for excellence . The Government are committed to ensuring that Prevent is effective . The report of the independent review of Prevent — the IRP — was published on 8 February 2023 and set out Sir William Shawcross ’s 34 recommendations , all of which were accepted by the Government in response . Last year , we implemented the Prevent duty guidance for England and Wales , responding to several of Sir William ’s recommendations . The updated guidance for Scotland , which is the subject of this statutory instrument , was issued on 7 May , and it will ensure that Scotland too can benefit from updated guidance and best practice . The Home Office worked quickly with the Scottish Government to ensure that the updated Prevent duty guidance for Scotland is closely tailored to the Scottish context . It is worth saying that all parts of the United Kingdom face slightly different challenges on Prevent , because different political views and ideologies affect different communities in all parts of the United Kingdom , and that is as true of Scotland as it is of anywhere else . The guidance has updated Prevent ’s objectives to make it clear that Prevent should tackle the ideological causes of terrorism . It sets out requirements more clearly , articulating the need for high - quality training so that risk can be identified and managed . It provides an updated threat picture , and gives details of the strategic security threat check , which helps Prevent recognise and respond to the greatest threats . This will ensure that Prevent is well - equipped to counter the threats we face and the ideologies underpinning them . As well as responding to the independent review of Prevent ’s recommendations , the guidance reflects current best practice . It supports and exemplifies the excellent work that we know takes place across the country to keep us safe and help prevent people from becoming terrorists or from supporting terrorism . The guidance will assist specified authorities in Scotland to understand how best to comply with the duty . It includes details of the capabilities they should have to be able to identify and manage risk . It also advises on how they can help create an environment where the ideologies that are used to radicalise people into terrorism are challenged , not permitted to flourish . People with responsibilities relevant to the delivery of Prevent were consulted on the guidance . A range of key Scottish governmental partners were engaged throughout the development of the updated guidance , and their feedback has been positive . The Government have been working closely with these partners to roll out the guidance and support its implementation . Subject to the approval of this House , this statutory instrument will bring the new guidance into effect on 19 August , replacing the 2015 guidance . It will strengthen the Prevent system and help to keep us all safe , which is why I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his remarks . It is always good to see him in his place . At the outset , I want to put on record that we on the Opposition Benches believe national security — the defence of our homeland — is an issue that as much as possible should rise above the political fray and unite us in common cause . Given that this statutory instrument relates to Scotland , I think it is right that we take the opportunity to pay tribute to the extraordinary Scottish men and women serving in government , our intelligence services , our police and our armed forces who work tirelessly from Land ’s End to John O’Groats to keep Scotland and all of the United Kingdom safe . These men and women protecting our country must of course work within legislative frameworks . Today , we are debating the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( Risk of Being Drawn into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2024 in the Chamber , some seven months , as the Minister said , after we debated a fairly similar statutory instrument to update the Prevent duty guidance in England and Wales . Before I turn to the details of the statutory instrument before the House on the updated Scottish Prevent duty guidance , I want — with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker — to very briefly put on record my great affection for Scotland . Home to beautiful highland countryside from Glen Affric to Glen Urquhart , breathtaking coastline from the Mull of Galloway right the way round to St Abb ’s Head , and bustling cities on the Clyde , the Forth , the Dee and the Tay , Scotland is a truly special place . Add to that the fact that Scottish people are some of the most warm - hearted and generous people anyone could wish to meet , and I am so proud that Scotland stands shoulder to shoulder with the rest of our United Kingdom to counter the threats of an increasingly more volatile and polarised world . I am slightly hesitant about interrupting this eulogy to all things Scots , but has the hon . Gentleman noted that a Scot has just taken the Chair ? I had made that observation , and that in part gave me the confidence to continue going perhaps longer than otherwise might have been the case . I sense , given the beady eye you have on me , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I should probably — It is okay with me . Madam Deputy Speaker says it is fine to keep saying nice things about Scotland , but I am slightly conscious that the Minister may have somewhere to go in the not - too - distant future . I do not want to detain him for too much longer , given that there is apparently quite an important meeting taking place at 14.15 — At 16.15 . At 16.15 — the Minister has admitted it — but although I would like the opportunity to spend even longer talking about what a fantastic place Scotland is , I should probably begin to turn to the substance of these matters . I do so by saying that we on the Opposition Benches support the update to the Scottish Prevent duty guidance , although there are some questions about how it sits within broader efforts to counter extremism and terrorism , which I will come to in a moment . Regardless of where in the UK extremism rears its ugly head , it is fuelled by fear and hate , and stoked by malign individuals whose motives are abhorrent to the vast majority of decent people in Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom . We have felt the devastation that extremism can cause through terrorist attacks around the world and in our country . With every act of terror , there was a path starting with radicalisation and ending with lives lost and lives changed forever . At this point , I want to take the opportunity , and I am sure the Minister will join me in doing so , of paying tribute to Figen Murray . She is the mother of Manchester Arena bombing victim Martyn Hett , and she is a campaigner for Martyn ’s law . Just today , she has completed her walk down from Manchester to London to meet the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition . The dignity and tenacity shown by Figen reminds us all of the painful legacies left by terrorism that are faced by too many people in our country . That is why Prevent practitioners in Scotland and across the UK need confidence and clarity in Prevent duty guidance , as this guidance should ensure that the right interventions are taking place at the right time to detect , disrupt and defeat extremism wherever it presents itself . These interventions save lives , and we should not understate the crucial role played by Prevent practitioners . We therefore welcome changes in the guidance to improve the quality of Prevent referrals to multi - agency panels in Scotland by giving clearer advice on how to understand and manage risk , including through training and risk assessments and reducing permissive environments as a key theme to tackle the ideological causes of terrorism and broader radicalising influences . These are important steps , as there can never be any excuse for extremist violence anywhere on Britain ’s streets or the glorification of any violence linked to any ideological cause . As the extremist threat landscape continues to shift across the UK , there must be full confidence in Prevent ’s work in Scotland . I would be grateful if the Minister could answer the following questions . First , since we debated the Prevent duty guidance regulations for England and Wales , the Secretary of State for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities has published the UK Government ’s new definition of extremism — an update from their 2011 definition that the Scottish Government did not adopt . Can the Minister outline what discussions he has had with colleagues in the Scottish Government about adopting the new definition ? To what extent can he say whether it was discussed as part of a wider discussion on community cohesion at the inter - ministerial standing committee meeting on 12 March ? Secondly , and still touching on the intergovernmental work , Sir William Shawcross stated in his review his concern about the lack of oversight and support for Prevent delivery in the Scottish education sector . He recommended that the Scottish Government restructure Prevent in line with the wider UK model . Although guidance for higher education institutions in Scotland was published alongside the updated Scottish Prevent duty guidance , it would be helpful if the Minister could explain what feedback was received from the Scottish education sector ahead of publication . What will the next steps be with the Scottish Government regarding Prevent and the Scottish education sector ? Furthermore , Sir William said in February this year that Ministers had ignored some of his key recommendations . Has the Minister discussed those concerns with Sir William ? Thirdly , in his review , Sir William challenged the perceived extremist threat landscape in Scotland as identified by Scottish officials and recommended that more frequent assessments be made to enhance understanding among practitioners and officials alike . It was not clear in the UK Government ’s response to this recommendation that they would work with the Scottish Government and Police Scotland on increasing the frequency . Can the Minister outline what is being done to improve this vital intelligence - gathering work in Scotland ? To conclude , the Opposition will work constructively with the Government as much as possible on these important matters , and I know that the Minister will take my points and questions in that spirit . All of us on the Opposition Benches want to ensure that the Scottish public and the wider UK are spared the terrors of extremism and shielded from the depravity of terrorist violence . We will work closely with the UK and Scottish Governments to ensure that they succeed in that vital task . I thank the Labour Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , for his kind words about Scotland . I was rather worried , given the lengths he was going to , that I might not get back to Scotland this evening . In responding to this statutory instrument today , I very much welcome the engagement that the Home Office has had with the Scottish Government and partners and organisations in Scotland . We have been able to tailor Prevent to the Scottish context , and it is important that we do so , because some of the threats we face are not quite the same , as has been acknowledged . I will also take this opportunity to thank Figen Murray for all the work and advocacy she has done following the Manchester Arena bombing . I ask the Minister for any update he can give on the status of the proposed legislation . We would all like to know what exactly the Government are planning for that . In that light , I also pay tribute to Eilidh MacLeod from Barra , who also lost her life in that bombing , and remark on the wonderful work that the trust in her memory does to develop youth music as a lovely legacy from something so terrible . The Scottish Government have tailored Prevent to emphasise early intervention , safeguarding and preventing people from becoming alienated or isolated , with the aim of reducing vulnerability and increasing resilience to toxic extremist narratives . According to the review , “ Understanding extremism in Scotland”—those research findings were published in July last year — stakeholders , public sector practitioners and members of the public often found it difficult to articulate a precise definition of the concept of extremism when asked . Extremism is often depicted as views or behaviours in opposition to societal and cultural norms , values and morals . The use of advocacy of violence to promote a viewpoint or in pursuit of a particular aim is also a common feature of the definitions found in that research . Broadly , in that research , public sector practitioners felt that because there are smaller ethnic minority populations in Scotland , as compared with England , the response is slightly different . People may feel less marginalised in Scotland , less susceptible to some of those messages and less vulnerable to radicalisation . It would be negligent of me not to mention the wider concerns about Prevent . A few months ago I met Amnesty , which has concerns about Prevent and has produced a report . It was worried by some of the extreme examples where Prevent had gone horribly wrong and people had ended up stigmatised . People with neurodiversity or learning disabilities have sometimes been caught up in Prevent , for example . What safeguards are the Government putting in place to prevent the awful things that have happened to people , and the impact that can have on their day - to - day lives ? People who are no threat should not end up in Prevent because of a misunderstanding by someone who has the right to report them . Let me reflect on my wider concerns about the Walney report and some of the comments of the Levelling Up Secretary earlier this year . Some in the community felt that they were being stigmatised undeservedly . I worry that their involvement in groups may push them towards radicalisation and Prevent when they should not be . We should try to draw people away from being stigmatised . I repeat what I said earlier — we should think about the far right in our definition of extremism , because it is a serious worry for me and many others . We should also be concerned about extreme British nationalism . Many of the people who come after me on social media have Union flags in their profiles . They are not any other kind of extremist but definitely British nationalists who come at me because I believe in independence for my country . Those people should be acknowledged in the report . I encourage the Minister to go further on misogyny and incel extremism , because that is a clear and definite threat to women . Our young people are at severe risk of radicalisation , and are already being radicalised . As the mother of a teenage boy , I am deeply worried by the kinds of things that teenage boys see on their social media feeds . Will the Minister to do more about that within the Prevent strategy ? The Scottish Government will continue to work with the UK Government on Prevent , developing the necessary guidelines , co - operating with anti - terror police and tackling extremist violent threats wherever they reside . The numbers of people referred to Prevent in Scotland have been small . I do not want the number of reports to increase greatly , because that would cause wider concerns about where we are going as a society . I urge caution and the need for community cohesion , because that is the very best defence against people being drawn into extremism — if the community stands around them and they do not feel isolated and excluded but part of something , rather than feeling marginalised and driven apart . Let me start with some of the points that the hon . Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) made . I want to make it absolutely clear that incel violence is a form of extremism that draws on an ideology based on the hatred of women . It is completely unacceptable and , sadly , it has led to terrorism not just here but in other parts . It is utterly vile , and it is as serious and pernicious as any other form of terrorism or extremism . It is not quite as prevalent as some other forms — that is to be welcomed — but it can be kept down only if , as she said , we include people in our community and cut off the routes to hatred before they emerge and become passages . The hon . Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , as usual , has approached this in a calm and professional manner . It has been a pleasure to work with him on this , as it has been in many other areas . It has been an absolute joy to work with Figen Murray on another area . She has been a remarkable advocate for individuals across our country who have been victims of terror . Seven years ago , almost to the day , she lost her son Martyn . I know we all pay enormous tribute to her for the dignity and professionalism with which she has approached her campaign — one that has led to an awful lot of support , including from the Prime Minister and others . I am very grateful to the hon . Gentleman for his approach to this . Sadly , I can not offer any updates at this stage . As he knows , we are going through the necessary consultation process . I will bring forward further updates as soon as I can , but that will be in due course , I am afraid . The hon . Gentleman raised an interesting question about DLUHC ’s conversation with the Scottish Government . Forgive me , but I will have to leave the DLUHC Secretary to speak for himself on that , as I am not aware of his conversations . I speak regularly to the Scottish Government on these areas , some of which are reserved matters . As he knows , national security is a reserved matter and therefore the responsibility of the UK Government . That said , there is an awful lot of co - operation not just with the Scottish Government but with other administrations in Scotland , including different councils in different counties . While we are on this matter , the hon . Gentleman ’s paean to Scotland would not have anything to do with his desire to get in campaigning mode , would it ? So cynical ! I appreciate what he said , but for somebody who decided to throw himself out of aeroplanes in the south of England rather than join our great and glorious core training in Arbroath — that is just a very strange thing to have done , for who claims to have that unbelievable love for the north ! It is a huge privilege to tease the hon . Gentleman — we have been friends for far too long for me to miss the opportunity . It is always a pleasure to be in Scotland and to see the extraordinary achievements made by the Scottish people , not just in this area but in many others . This is one of those areas where I just want to pick up on something . The hon . Gentleman spoke about the way in which Scotland is dealing with these cases . I want to pay enormous tribute to those who are gathered together in Gartcosh : over 20 different agencies , including everybody from Police Scotland , MI5 to His Majesty ’s Revenue and Customs , and various environmental agencies . It is absolutely extraordinary to see what they have brought together . It is a real power centre not just for keeping Scotland safe , but for fighting crime and disorder all across the United Kingdom . It is a fantastic resource and really impressive . If we are giving this paean to Scotland , I should also say that the head of MI5 , whose Scottish tones have informed me of some of the worst abuses of humanity in this country , demonstrates the level of commitment that many have . I place on record my extreme gratitude to all MI5 officers , counter - terrorism police and the National Crime Agency , who do a huge amount to keep us safe , alongside the territorial forces , whose work is absolutely essential . None of that would work unless there was the underpinning , and the underpinning is making sure that society does not breed more extremists . The way we avoid that is by making sure that people are part of our community . The Prevent programme is absolutely essential to making sure that when somebody strays , they are assisted to come back into the fold . This is the work , as was said , of the good shepherd . That is what is so important today : making sure that we keep people in our society and within the fold , able to contribute and able to feel part of a wider whole . That is absolutely essential . I apologise for missing the Minister ’s opening remarks . As someone who takes a huge personal interest in our counter - terrorism capabilities , I want to put on record the fact that we are working cross - party . That is very welcome indeed . Does the Security Minister agree that while state - on - state aggression is back at a scale that we are now having to advance our defence posture , the threat of non - state actors and extremism is very much there ? In particular , we are seeing the rise of ISIS - K and potentially overtaking the scale of threat that al - Qaeda posed . It is now out of control , taking advantage of recruitment , indoctrinating and tasking in Afghanistan and elsewhere . Does he agree that we should all be concerned about ISIS - K ? My right hon . Friend is absolutely right that ISIS - K — naming that area of Afghanistan after the older Arabic name , Khorasan , for that region — is a pernicious threat and it has been spreading in Afghanistan . Sadly , we have seen it act , including most recently in Moscow . It is a deeply pernicious force and one that we are acutely aware of . The agencies I cited earlier are extremely cautious to keep a very close eye on it . The tragedy is that these organisations have the ability to form and organise under the Taliban , that hateful organisation which has taken over the territory of Afghanistan and is not only bringing violence , pain and suffering to millions of Afghans , but ensuring that women and girls do not enjoy the liberties that they should — that they are denied education , prevented from work , and prevented from seeing the progress and opportunity that we would all hope for others around the world . Scotland now has a Prevent adviser , which brings it into line with England and Wales . The adviser ’s work is extremely important to ensuring that we are all working together . As I have said , while it is certainly true that extremism has a local characteristic , it is not the same extremism that we see in London , Birmingham , Bristol , Glasgow , Edinburgh , Cardiff , Belfast , or any other place where we might be campaigning in the second half of the year — to answer the point made by the hon . Member for Barnsley Central . The efforts we are making in all parts of the United Kingdom are essential , because keeping the United Kingdom safe , together and whole is this Government 's priority , and one that we will never stop working on . I say that as a passionate Unionist/ I am sure that the hon . Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) will understand that we may disagree on that , even though we work together in this regard . I am grateful for the contributions made today , and I am grateful for the support of Members in all parts of the House for this statutory instrument . Let me just reassert that the core objective is to strengthen the Prevent system , which is a vital component of our counter - terrorism operations . Question put and agreed to . Licences and Licensing I beg to move , That the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2024 , which was laid before this House on 8 May , be approved . It is a genuine pleasure to speak about this motion . It is certainly a much greater pleasure than answering the urgent question earlier this afternoon , but admittedly the bar was set fairly low . This summer the Euro 2024 football championships will take place in Germany . I am delighted that both the England and the Scotland men ’s national teams have qualified to take part , although I am sure the House will share my sorrow that the Northern Irish and Welsh teams did not on this occasion . Hopefully , they will be joining England and Scotland in 2028 . This draft contingent order seeks to extend licensing hours for venues across England and Wales in the — I hope , extremely likely — event that England or Scotland reaches the semi - final or the final of the upcoming tournament . I am extremely confident that one or even both of those teams will make it to that stage . In fact , I confidently predict that it will be an England v. Scotland final when it comes around . That is probably about the only thing that it is safe to predict at the moment , given the fevered and febrile speculation that is currently under way in these parts . If England or Scotland , or indeed both teams , reach those stages , the order will extend licensing hours in England and Wales from 11 pm until 1 am on the days of the semi - finals , which are due to take place on 9 and 10 July , and the final , which is scheduled to take place on 14 July . I have no idea whether any other significant events may be taking place around that time as well . People will want to watch those games in the pub , and if there is extra time or there are penalties — or , indeed , any recounts — they will want to be able to enjoy a drink while the penalties or , indeed , the recounts take place . My own experience of a recount in 2010 , when I lost a parliamentary constituency by 42 votes , was a painful one that I am not looking to repeat anytime soon . I know that pubs in my constituency will appreciate being able to stay open a bit longer — pubs such as the Wattenden Arms , the Pembroke in Coulsdon , the Tudor Rose and the Fox . I was just talking to my hon . Friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , who said that pubs in his constituency would like to stay open too — although apparently some of them sometimes show rugby as well as football . He is a great champion of pubs in North Cornwall , and I know that all of us in this House want to support pubs in our respective constituencies . I am very pleased to see the motion before us today . I wonder whether the Minister shares my slight disappointment that the quarter - finals are not included in this order , given that the first quarter - finals are on Friday 5 July and there may be other things to celebrate on that day — possibly a new Government . Well , we have to strike the right balance . These types of orders can be used only for events of exceptional significance , and we have chosen to draw the line at the semi - finals and the final . As for other events of significance that may be occurring around then , I am afraid I am as much in the dark as the hon . Gentleman is , but I know that he will join me in wishing pubs in his constituency well . Hopefully , they will be able to enjoy the Euros in a spirit of conviviality as the tournament unfolds . I know that my hon . Friend the Member for Dudley South ( Mike Wood ) , a former chair of the all - party parliamentary group on beer , sends his good wishes to pubs in his constituency , and to those up and down the land . As the House will be aware , under section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 , the Secretary of State can make an order relaxing licensing hours to mark occasions of “ exceptional national significance ” , which is the very high threshold to which I referred a moment ago . The decision to lay this draft order stems from a consultation that the Home Office conducted earlier this year . Over 80 % of respondents were in favour of extending licensing hours for the semi - finals and final if one of the home nation teams reach those stages . Respondents agreed with the proposed duration of a potential extension , which , as I have set out , would extend licensing hours until 1 am the following morning , and they agreed that the order should apply to both England and Wales . Respondents also agreed that it should apply only to sales of alcohol for consumption on the premises , rather than off it . This order will ensure that premises will be allowed to remain open until 1 am without having to notify the licensing authority — typically the local authority — via a temporary event notice , benefiting both businesses and local authorities . Businesses will save time and money by not having to give temporary event notices , while licensing authorities will save time and money by not having to process them . Of course , temporary event notices can be applied for , but it is a somewhat bureaucratic process . Later closing times will be a welcome boost for pubs and bars at a busy time should either England or Scotland be involved in the semi - finals or final . As I have said already , I fervently hope that both England and Scotland make the final , given that I am a passionate Unionist . It is right that I acknowledge that the police have expressed some reservations about extending licensing hours — indeed , they say that they are not in favour of it — given the potential for increased crime and disorder . We have carefully considered those representations , and although police deployments and resourcing are operational matters for policing , we know that police forces will put in place plans that will minimise the risk , as they have done in the past . It is worth noting that there have been no significant large - scale disorder incidents linked to licensing extensions during previous tournaments , which is a testament to the fact that forces are well versed in managing these matters , and I am sure the House will join me in thanking police forces up and down the country for everything they do to maintain order and reduce the risk of crime . I also emphasise that this is a limited two - hour extension to licensing hours , which is a proportionate approach marking these events , and that the contingent order we are considering only covers sales for consumption on the premises after 11 pm . It does not cover premises that sell alcohol only for consumption off the premises , such as off - licences and supermarkets . Before I finish — normally the most popular words in any speech I give — I will make just two further points of clarification . The first is that if either England or Scotland is successful in reaching either the semi - final or the final , this extension will apply only to licensed venues in England and Wales . This is because licensing is a devolved matter , and it would be for the Scottish Government or the Northern Ireland Department of Justice to make arrangements for extending licensing hours in Scotland and Northern Ireland , which I would strongly encourage them to do . Hopefully they need very little encouragement to do that . Secondly , if neither England nor Scotland reaches the semi - final , normal licensing hours will apply on 9 and 10 July . If either or both teams reach the semi - final but neither team is in the final , normal licensing hours will apply on 14 July , the date of the final . The House will be aware that the hon . Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) is sponsoring a private Member ’s Bill — which I think had its Report and Third Reading stages just last Friday , and which the Government fully support — to make orders such as this subject to the negative resolution procedure in the future . This would , of course , rob the House of the opportunity it is currently enjoying to hear my words on this topic , which I am sure would come as a sore disappointment . But if that private Member ’s Bill completes its passage through the other place , debates such as these will not happen because we will be using the negative resolution . Obviously that law is not in force now , so we are debating this today in the normal way . However , if , as we hope and expect , this order currently before the House commands universal support — perhaps even enthusiastic universal support , and we will find out in just a moment when the shadow Security Minister stands up and we are able to determine his level of support and enthusiasm — it will give weight to the point that the hon . Member for South Shields and others have made that debating these orders is not necessarily the best use of precious parliamentary time , given that they are pretty uncontentious and generally matters of unanimous assent , and sometimes even enthusiastic unanimous assent . In conclusion , we have brought forward this order in recognition of the huge interest there will be in the Euro 2024 tournament , and in particular , the huge interest in the fortunes of England and Scotland , which I know are dear to the hearts of many Members and members of the public up and down the country . Like all England fans , I am hopeful that this will be the year that football finally comes home again , and I am sure that many Members will want to join me in expressing encouragement and support to Gareth Southgate and his team , and also of course to the Scottish team , who I hope also do very well in the tournament . With that thought , I commend this order to the House . Can I begin by thanking the Minister for his remarks ? My hon . Friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) unfortunately can not respond today , so I have been brought off the substitutes ’ bench . To cut to the chase , I am pleased to be able to confirm to the Minister our enthusiastic support for this motion . Football is a positive , powerful force that brings people together . Whether it be the European championships or the World cup , international tournaments can bring our nation together . The Euros this summer will be another focal point and will be watched keenly by millions across the country and indeed around the world . Each of the nations of the UK will have fond memories of supporting and celebrating its national team , and in a world that can sometimes seem pressurised and stressful , these moments have been genuinely joyous . It is no wonder that England and Scotland , and I sense that I would be pushing my luck if I tried to say anything more positive about Scotland — Order . For the sake of clarity , the hon . Gentleman would not be pushing his luck while I am in the Chair . He may proceed . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Scotland fans , along with England fans , will be particularly looking forward to this summer ’s tournament , and hopefully celebrating great success . We therefore welcome this statutory instrument to extend the licensing hours of premises by two hours , should a home nation reach the semi - finals or final of this summer ’s Euros . Many will welcome this change to allow people to come together to get behind their country , and pubs , clubs and the wider hospitality industry across the country will also appreciate this move . The hospitality industry struggled immensely during the pandemic , and many are still suffering with the effects of that unprecedented disruption . Sadly , dozens of pubs continue to close each month across the UK . These will have been community hubs , places to meet friends and family , and ever more important social spaces when society can sometimes feel increasingly atomised . Pubs , bars and social clubs are a part of our country , serving an important function that we must work together to protect and support . The opportunity to extend opening hours during what promises to be a very busy period for the sector will , I am sure , be greatly appreciated , so the Opposition are pleased to support the order . I seek assurances from the Minister on a few points . Have the Government consulted trade bodies to ensure that the hospitality industry is best placed to reap the rewards of this change ? It seems sensible to bring them into the process to ensure that this is done in the best possible way to support the industry . Many will also have concerns about how this change will be policed , and the Minister touched on that . The recent Netflix documentary “ The Final : Attack on Wembley ” again brought into sharp focus what happened during the Euros in 2021 , with public disorder a shameful feature of the latter stages of the tournament , so have the Government had discussions with the police or local government to hear any concerns they might have on these matters ? How do the Government intend to respond in such circumstances , should those bodies require any assistance ? They will be on the frontline of this change , so their assessment of the situation is , of course , invaluable . Finally , on a point of process , many were disappointed that an extension of licensing hours was not agreed in time for the Lionesses ’ appearance in the women ’s World cup final last year . Indeed , many businesses say that they missed out on increased trade due to the extension not being agreed . The process of agreeing temporary relaxations of licensing laws is perhaps over - bureaucratic and potentially not flexible enough to allow quick relaxations to be agreed in time for sporting occasions . The Minister helpfully mentioned that , last Friday , my hon . Friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) steered her Licensing Hours Extensions Bill through Third Reading , with Government support . Her Bill will dramatically improve the process for making temporary extensions to licensing hours , making it less cumbersome . I wish her every success as the Bill now progresses to the other place , and I hope the Government will continue to support it to become law . In the meantime , the Government , football fans and the hospitality industry can all be assured of the Opposition ’s support for the order . I wish both England and Scotland all the very best for the forthcoming tournament . I thank the shadow Minister for his support . I am not sure that it was enthusiastic support — It was intended to be . I certainly take that in the spirit in which it was intended . Who knows , perhaps this is the last time we will face each other over the Dispatch Box . For a while . Yes , for a while . I know that Barnsley Central is close to the top of our target list . I am ever the optimist . The shadow Minister asked one or two questions about the consultation and the hospitality trade , which was included in the consultation . We have studied it very carefully , and it was 80 % in favour . I think much of that enthusiasm came from the hospitality industry itself , which saw this as an opportunity , but of course , hospitality venues need to ensure that they are responsible in the way they look after and serve football fans in their pubs and bars . The hon . Member mentioned the disorder around the Euros finals three years ago , particularly around Wembley and in central London . Of course , we are talking about licensed premises rather than stadiums , so we are confident the police will be able to operationally manage the extension of licensing hours to 1 am should the extension be activated . On the actual event itself , we are working very closely with the German police and have a good policing plan in place to ensure we deal with any English fans who we think may cause problems . There is also a good policing plan in place for the Champions League final , which will take place at Wembley in a couple of weeks between Dortmund and Real Madrid . The policing of those tournament football games is being very carefully attended to . I am glad that we have unanimous consent , I believe , on this topic . It is a nice moment of harmony on which to conclude the debate . Question put and agreed to . Holocaust Memorial Bill : Business of the House Motion made , and Question proposed , That the following provisions shall apply to the Holocaust Memorial Bill : ( 1 ) ( a ) the Order of the House of 17 April re - committing the Holocaust Memorial Bill to a public bill committee shall be discharged , and ( b ) the Bill shall be re - committed instead to a Committee of the whole House . Timetable ( 2 ) ( a ) Proceedings in Committee of the whole House , any proceedings on Consideration and proceedings on Third Reading shall be taken at today ’s sitting in accordance with this Order . ( b ) Proceedings in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously concluded ) be brought to a conclusion three hours after the commencement of proceedings on the Motion for this Order . ( c ) Any proceedings on Consideration and proceedings on Third Reading shall ( so far as not previously concluded ) be brought to a conclusion four hours after the commencement of proceedings on the Motion for this Order . Timing of proceedings and Questions to be put ( 3 ) ( a ) On the conclusion of proceedings in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without putting any Question . ( b ) If the Bill is reported with amendments , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amended without any Question being put . ( 4 ) For the purpose of bringing any proceedings to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 2 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this Order did not apply : ( a ) any Question already proposed from the Chair ; ( b ) any Question necessary to bring to a decision a Question so proposed ; ( c ) the Question on any amendment , new Clause or new Schedule selected by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the Question on any amendment moved or Motion made by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other Question necessary for the disposal of the business to be concluded ; and shall not put any other questions , other than the question on any motion described in paragraph ( 10)(a ) of this Order . ( 5 ) On a Motion so made for a new Clause or a new Schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the Question that the Clause or Schedule be added to the Bill . ( 6 ) If two or more Questions would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4)(d ) on successive amendments moved or Motions made by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single Question in relation to those amendments or Motions . ( 7 ) If two or more Questions would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4)(e ) in relation to successive provisions of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single Question in relation to those provisions , except that the Question shall be put separately on any Clause of or Schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown has signified an intention to leave out . Consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8) ( a ) Any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be considered forthwith without any Question being put ; and any proceedings interrupted for that purpose shall be suspended accordingly . ( b ) Proceedings on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously concluded ) be brought to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceedings suspended under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resumed . ( 9 ) Paragraphs ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order No . 83F ( Programme orders : conclusion of proceedings on consideration of Lords amendments ) apply for the purposes of bringing any proceedings to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8) of this Order . Subsequent stages ( 10 ) ( a ) Any further Message from the Lords on the Bill may be considered forthwith without any Question being put ; and any proceedings interrupted for that purpose shall be suspended accordingly . ( b ) Proceedings on any further Message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously concluded ) be brought to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceedings suspended under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resumed . ( 11 ) Paragraphs ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 G ( Programme orders : conclusion of proceedings on further messages from the Lords ) apply for the purposes of bringing any proceedings to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this Order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) Paragraphs ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( Programme orders : reasons committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appointed to draw up reasons after proceedings have been brought to a conclusion in accordance with this Order . Miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15(1 ) ( Exempted business ) shall apply to proceedings on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order No . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceedings to which this Order applies . ( 15 ) ( a ) No Motion shall be made , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceedings on the Bill are taken , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provisions of this Order . ( b ) No notice shall be required of such a Motion . ( c ) Such a Motion may be considered forthwith without any Question being put ; and any proceedings interrupted for that purpose shall be suspended accordingly . ( d ) The Question on such a Motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceedings suspended under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resumed . ( e ) Standing Order No . 15(1 ) ( Exempted business ) shall apply to proceedings on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) No dilatory Motion shall be made in relation to proceedings to which this Order applies except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) The Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) The start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( Emergency debates ) to be held on a day on which the Bill has been set down to be taken as an Order of the Day shall be postponed until the conclusion of any proceedings on that day to which this Order applies . ( 18 ) Proceedings to which this Order applies shall not be interrupted under any Standing Order relating to the sittings of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) Any private business which has been set down for consideration at a time falling after the commencement of proceedings on this Order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill has been set down to be taken as an Order of the Day shall , instead of being considered as provided by Standing Orders or by any Order of the House , be considered at the conclusion of the proceedings on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order No . 15(1 ) ( Exempted business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of securing that the business may be considered for a period of three hours.—(Paul Holmes . ) I want the House to know what the Government know , which is that , were there to be many votes , it would squash the time between the remaining stages and Third Reading . That is why I will not take time now ; we are using the time that is there . However , I hope that , during the debate , Government can put on the table , first , the specification laid out by the Government and their agency in September 2015 , saying what they wanted the memorial to do and to be , and the fact that they wanted the local authorities to support it . Secondly , I hope that the Government put on the table an up - to - date estimate of the capital cost of the memorial and the recurrent costs . As the House will remember , on Second Reading , information was placed in the Library stating that , in the previous 12 months , the cost had gone up from £ 102 million to £ 137 million in one year . I thank the hon . Gentleman . I emphasise that this is not the main debate ; I understand why the Father of the House wanted to make that point now , but I remind Members that this is the business of the House motion . Question put and agreed to . Holocaust Memorial Bill Considered in Committee ( Order , this day ) [ Relevant documents : First Special Report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , HC 121 , and the Promoter ’s response , CP 1086 . ] [ Dame Eleanor Laing in the Chair ] Clause 1 - Expenditure relating to a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre I remind Members that , in Committee , Members should address the Chair not as Madam Deputy Speaker , but as Madam Chair , or , preferably , Madam Chairman . I call the Father of the House . I beg to move amendment 6 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — “ ( d ) educational purposes and activities related to the memorial and the centre for learning ” . With this it will be convenient to consider : Amendment 1 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — “ ( 1A ) Expenditure incurred under this section must not exceed £ 50 million . ” Clause 1 stand part . Amendment 2 , in clause 2 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert “ in so far as those paragraphs relate to a Holocaust Memorial . ” This amendment would provide for restrictions , in relation to certain land under the 1900 Act , to be removed only for activities described in paragraphs ( a ) to ( c ) of section 1(1 ) , in relation to a Holocaust Memorial . Amendment 3 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert “ subject to the total area used for such activities not exceeding 1,429 square metres ( including in that total area any entrance pavilion , courtyard , ramp , associated hard standing , service access , access paths and any areas which are inaccessible to the public or inaccessible without tickets ) . ” This amendment would limit the area of Victoria Tower Gardens for which restrictions are lifted for the purposes of the construction of a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre to 1,429m2 . Amendment 5 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert “ provided that any such activities shall not cause any harm to any other memorial in the land described in section 8(1 ) of that Act or to the setting of such memorials . ” This amendment would permit works to be carried out on land subject to restrictions under the 1900 Act provided that no harm is caused to other memorials in that area . Clause 2 stand part . Clause 3 stand part . New clause 1 — Review of security arrangements — “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , prior to the commencement of construction of a Holocaust memorial or learning centre — ( a ) carry out a review of proposed security arrangements for the proposed Holocaust memorial or learning centre ; ( b ) lay before Parliament a report on the outcome and findings of the review of the proposed security arrangements ; ( c ) by regulations , specify the security arrangements which are to be implemented for the proposed Holocaust memorial or learning centre . ( 2 ) Regulations made under subsection ( 1)(c ) are subject to the affirmative procedure . ” New clause 2 — Review of sites — “ The Secretary of State must , prior to a decision being made in relation to the site of a Holocaust Memorial or Learning Centre — ( a ) carry out a review of potential sites for a Holocaust memorial or learning centre , which must include — ( i ) consideration of the views of professional property consultants , ( ii ) consideration of the way in which each site would meet the objectives of the Prime Minister ’s Holocaust Commission Report 2015 , ( iii ) consideration of the way in which each site would meet the objectives of the Search for a Central London site 2015 , ( iv ) consideration of estimates of costs for construction for each site , and ( v ) a full public consultation on the shortlisted sites ; ( b ) lay before Parliament a report on the findings of the review . ” This new clause would require the Government to carry out a review of potential sites for a Holocaust Memorial or Learning Centre , and lay a report on its findings , before a decision is made in relation to the final site . When someone asked me if there was going to be a general election soon , I thought they must have read the carry - over motion for the Bill and that had misled them into thinking we were about to have an election . Perhaps , by the end of the debate , we will know whether that was right or wrong . In one of the explanations of the present proposal , to put a box with 23 fins in the middle of Victoria Tower Gardens , a design that was not accepted for Ottawa before it was submitted for London , we were told that people would come out of the experience looking at Parliament — at democracy . In fact , if it happens , they will come out and look at the House of Lords . Although the House of Lords is an important part of our democracy , it is not necessarily democracy itself ; it has the remaining hereditary peers , as well as people who are appointed . The House of Lords will have the opportunity to consider the Bill , if it reaches their lordships ’ House , and I believe it will pick up the points made in the Select Committee that considered the hybrid Bill in more depth than this House will . In the specification in September 2015 , the Government and their agency made plain they did not want most of the money spent on construction and building ; they wanted most of it spent on education . In terms of education about the Holocaust , we are in difficult times . Protests in London mean the existing Holocaust memorial gets covered up for protection and , if the present proposal goes ahead , it will be quite often be closed on security grounds . Other hon . Members will speak to the security considerations that were heard in front of the Select Committee . When the Government put forward their proposal , the indication was it would cost £ 25 million from Government and £ 25 million raised from charitable sources . Since then , my guess is — I hope the Minister will correct me — that £ 40 million has already been spent without anything being achieved . As the Select Committee set out , the costs go way above the £ 137 million plus contingencies indicated a year ago . I believe the Government should recognise that they went off on the wrong route when they considered the site options proposed by consultants that were put forward after the consultation starting in September 2015 . When the Government responded to that early in 2016 , they did not co - locate the learning centre with the memorial . As Ministers and those advising them know , in the consultation and specification in September 2015 , there was no mention of having the memorial close to Parliament at all . Page 10 of the specification document shows a map of what the foundation regards as the acceptable area of central London ; it went from the west of Regent ’s Park to Spitalfields and down to the Imperial War Museum . In the eight or nine years since then , the Imperial War Museum has totally reordered and expanded its Holocaust Galleries , the Jewish Museum has closed and the Wiener collection is in some difficulty . If the Government were serious about getting most of the money spent on education , they would have already diverted money to the Wiener collection and the Jewish Museum , and they would have charged up the Holocaust Memorial Trust with money . Last year , the trust had an income of £ 5,000 and spending of £ 6,000 , which is apparently dedicated on the presumption of getting the Government ’s proposal through . If they were serious about education , the Government would not have waited to get some kind of memorial up , and possibly some kind of learning centre associated with it , before they started to get on with the educational work . When the Holocaust Commission was set up , its purpose was to get education going now . Its work was taken over by the foundation and then pursued by Government Ministers . We have used up eight years because the Government have made mistake after mistake after mistake . The most recent one was to believe that their Bill to overcome the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 was in some way not hybrid ; it clearly was hybrid . The next mistake they made , one they made both before and after , was not to say there had never been a comparison between the present proposal and the best alternative . It took me three years to discover that they had not done that . If I am wrong , the Minister can lay that on the table , and I hope that he will do so now . It is the only time in modern times when the Government have brought forward a proposal without showing why it is better than the alternatives . They commissioned consultants who came forward with 26 schemes , three of which would have been put to the Government . But in a moment not of genius or necessarily of madness , but of peculiarity , those who were making the decision chose not to pay any attention at all . May I just clarify something that my hon . Friend has just said ? He stated that £ 40 million has already been spent on a scheme that has not moved forward in any way . I think that is the right figure , but the Minister will know . I am just a Back Bencher , and have been for quite some time , but I think that is the figure . I believe that it was between £ 35 million and £ 40 million . That could have paid for a prominent memorial and we could then have enhanced the learning and educational facilities . The arguments against using Victoria Tower Gardens are clear . It is an area of quiet recreation for people who live locally . I live nearby . It is a place where people who work round here can quietly enjoy the open space . I thank the Father of the House for giving way . He is making an important point about how Victoria Tower Gardens is a local park . Does he agree that there are thousands of social housing tenants , living 10 or 15 minutes ’ walk away , who benefit from having the green space that Victoria Tower Gardens offers and would be concerned if it were overtaken by a memorial and an education centre ? My hon . Friend is right . She has the advantage of having led Westminster City Council and will not need reminding that the Government originally said that they wanted their proposal to have the support of the local authority . When they gained the impression that , on merit , the local authority was not likely to give its approval , they took the proposal away from the local authority . On a number of occasions , the King ’s counsel leading for the Government in front of the Select Committee , said that what has been considered by the Committee was not planning permission . He constantly said that planning would be dealt with in the normal way . The normal way is for an application — because the present one has been squashed — to go to the local authority . The Government can , if they choose to do so , call it in if they think that the local authority has got it wrong or it is of national importance . They should not , in this case , have regarded it as of national importance to stop the local authority having the option of considering the interests of local residents , as my hon . Friend has remarked . Between Vauxhall Bridge and Victoria Street or Birdcage Walk , there is no other large green space open to the public . The Minister will know that . He will have walked around Victoria Tower Gardens as many times as I have . He may also have walked the extra 1,200 yards to the Imperial War Museum , where there is a big park dedicated to peace . Why was the Imperial War Museum not allowed to put forward a detailed proposal ? And why did the Government then turn round and say , because it had not put forward such a proposal , it could not be considered ? We all know that massive pressure was put on the Imperial War Museum trustees , and that their chair was made a member of the foundation . I do not think that the Government have approached this in the right way . Let me put the Government ’s words on the record . The United Kingdom Holocaust Memorial is seeking “ a prominent location in Central London with significant existing footfall so as to draw in and inspire the largest possible number of visitors . ” Under the present proposals , we will not be able just to walk in . We will have to be cleared by security and that , at times of heightened security , the memorial will either be closed or there will be airport - style security , which is not the point of a memorial to the victims and to the dedication that it should not happen again . To return to the Government ’s words : “ The site will support several features and activities , the number and extent of which will depend on the size of the space available . Sites capable of accommodating 5,000 - 10,000 sqm of built space for the UKHMF over no more than three contiguous floors will be considered . ” That is not what is being proposed , but the proposal would , in effect , take over about a third of the park regardless . The Government claim that it would be a much smaller proportion , but if we take all the associated parts of the proposal , it would be much more than the Government say . The final sentence of that section says : “ In order to achieve the maximum benefits for the public , the UKHMF needs to allocate as much of its funds as possible to educational purposes rather than to land and construction and so the site must be highly cost effective . ” The only cost - effectiveness in this site is that the Government believe that they can get it for free . They had not factored in the additional costs of building a box by a river and by a main road , where people are trying to enjoy the park . Some estimates suggest that the park will be basically out of action for up to five years . If the Government say , “ You should n’t believe that kind of estimate , ” I will tell them that for the past 12 months it has not been possible to walk along the river walk in Victoria Tower Gardens because Ministers who are responsible for the state of repair of the Buxton memorial fountain have allowed contractors to barrier it off way beyond what was needed to stop people going over the fountain itself . We could have had a fantastic , beautiful , moving memorial — roughly the same size as the Buxton memorial , or the memorial to the abolition of slavery or to the campaign for women ’s votes — eight years ago , if only the Government had not persisted with the crazy idea of an underground learning centre in a totally unsuitable location . My right hon . Friend is right , and most people will agree with him , even if their job is to stand up and say something different . I will not spend much time on the planning permission , because it is not the subject of the Bill . When the inspector ’s report was received by the Government and considered , this was the conclusion under the signature of the planning casework unit : “ This decision was made by the Minister of State for Housing in line with the published handling arrangements for this case … and signed on his behalf . In particular , those handling arrangements state that : ‘ Christopher Pincher MP ( the Housing and Planning Minister ) will be responsible for exercising the functions of the Secretary of State under sections 70 and 77 of the Town and Country Planning Act ’ ” and so on . Who here believes that a Minister of State would , on merit , turn down an application by their own Secretary of State ? I will give way to anybody who wants to make that suggestion . It is just incredible . It would not happen . I will now change tone a bit . During the Select Committee hearings , the Government counsel suddenly switched from saying who the lead designer and architect for the proposal was . The Government ’s press notice announcing the winner contained 13 references to Sir David Adjaye , now Order of Merit , four references to Ron Arad , and no references to Asa Bruno . Proper tribute has been paid to Asa Bruno . It is true that he was the one who put a number of points to the inspector . He is recognised as a leading designer , and his obituary , which I refreshed my mind on just now , showed that he was a startlingly good person . However , when the Government announced the lead designer and architect for the proposal , they named Sir David Adjaye , who could hardly be mentioned by the promoters at the Select Committee for reasons that I will not go into now . They are well known and in the public domain . Let us turn to the points that the Government made to the Select Committee after I raised that issue : “ On 24 January , in a debate on the Business of the House ( col 439 ) , Sir Peter Bottomley MP referred to the proceedings at the seventh public session of the Holocaust Memorial Bill committee and suggested that counsel for the Promoter may have ‘ inadvertently told the committee things that are contradicted by the facts … ’ in relation to responsibilities for the design of the Memorial . ” I was then told that what was said was right . I think that that leading counsel , over and over again , was trying to write Sir David Adjaye out because of the embarrassment to Government . If it was Asa Bruno who was responsible for the Ottawa proposal , so be it , but that was not what Government said seven years ago in public . I am going to go on fighting this , but not so long this evening , because my colleagues have more to say . I say to those watching the proceedings , “ Look into the details of what has happened . ” I commend to them early - day motions 711 , tabled on 1 May , and 775 , tabled on 21 May . In particular , the latter “ regrets that the promoter ” — that is , the Government — “ has failed to understand the justified requests for a detailed comparison of the present unsatisfactory scheme with the alternatives studied by the Government ’s consultants ; further regrets the continuing lack of updated costings for capital and recurrent costs ; disagrees with the suggestion that planning permission and all other necessary consents were obtained in the usual way ; regrets there is no known plan to spend more available resources on education rather than on construction ; further regrets that known and growing security restrictions are not being adequately addressed ; and believes the promoter is not meeting its obligation to achieve an appropriate memorial at a justified cost in a suitable location , associated with opportunities to learn and to understand the Holocaust and to reduce the likelihood of a repeat of the atrocities of the Holocaust . ” I end with words from the Holocaust survivors who gave evidence at the Committee , who said , in summary , that the proposal is too big for the gardens and too small for its purpose . I call Wera Hobhouse . Excuse me , Madam Chair , but I wish to speak only on Third Reading . Certainly — I was calling the hon . Lady because she is the only Member on the Opposition Back Benches who had indicated she wished to speak , but there is no need for her to contribute at this stage . We will save her contribution for Third Reading and continue with the Committee stage , with the Chair of the Committee that has examined this Bill , John Stevenson . Thank you , Dame Eleanor . I wish to speak to amendment 1 and new clause 1 and take the opportunity to speak to some of the other amendments . I pay tribute to my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) for his contribution and his dogged determination , and for covering many of the issues that are relevant to this discussion . Before making my other remarks , I would also like to say that I fully support the idea and concept of a Holocaust memorial and learning centre ; indeed , I voted for it on Second Reading . I recognise that this is an incredibly important project , and one that is probably as important now as it ever has been in the past . The idea of a specific memorial is entirely appropriate , but the concept and idea of a learning centre is in many respects vital and , in my view , the most significant part of the project . It is coming up to 80 years since the end of world war two and there are fewer people who have a direct link with that time or indeed with what happened during the second world war . Therefore , it is even more important we do not forget and that we ensure that we learn from what happened then and educate for the future . Please be in no doubt , therefore , of my support for an appropriate memorial and a worthwhile learning centre — something that I am sure the whole House will support . However , having had the privilege and responsibility of being part of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , I have concluded that there are some serious issues that need to be properly addressed before this specific scheme potentially proceeds — if it does at all . My advice to Government would be to take a step back and pause . Is this really the right scheme ? Is it really the right location ? What about the appropriate costs involved ? We all want to see a successful scheme . We want to see it constructed in a timely fashion , and arguably too long has already passed . We want it to be built in the right location , and at a cost that is realistic and fair . If I may be so bold , I would suggest that such a scheme could be built quite quickly at the Imperial War Museum and fulfil all the ambitions and wishes of the original Committee and everybody in this House . Let me turn to the Bill and the various amendments . Four key issues arise , but I will touch first on planning , on which I am sure the Minister will respond . Time has passed and circumstances have changed . What are the issues relating to air quality and flooding , the changes to the area in traffic management terms , and the prospect of thousands of visitors to such a site ? Is a new planning application now required , to go back to the proposal ’s origins , or should we just consider updating the current version , and , if so , what are the requirements for that ? The planning application touched on security , but circumstances have fundamentally changed . I will come back to that point in due course , as it relates to my new clause 1 . Secondly , there is consultation , which new clause 2 touches on . It is something that the Select Committee picked up on very early . The original Committee had instructed consultants to seek an appropriate site . Recommendations were made and sites were located and considered . The Holocaust Commission itself came up with Victoria Tower Gardens . I understand that it has been said — allegedly , at least — that that was a lightbulb moment . What I find extraordinary , however , is that no further consultation on that particular site was taken . Had such a consultation taken place , it may have revealed the issue relating to the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 — the reason for our deliberations today — and because that issue was missed , the amount of time spent on this whole project has been extended . That consultation may or may not have shown that that was the correct site , but at least there would have been proper consultation , people would have had the opportunity to consider the merits of the site and , perhaps , whether it was inappropriate , and it could have been compared with other locations . It was very telling that the counsel for the promoter and the Government all but acknowledged that a consultation should have taken place , and that it would have been better if one had . In my view , that was a serious error of judgment . I appreciate that the Government will argue that there was a consultation during the planning application , but I would dispute that it was the one that should have been carried out . Let me turn to my two amendments . Amendment 1 would address the overall cost : the original amount set aside by the Government to kick - start an endowment fund was £ 50 million , as set out in 2015 by the then Prime Minister , David Cameron . By 2017 , the figure quoted was still £ 50 million , but then the costs started to increase . In 2018 , they had risen to an estimated £ 102 million , of which the Government would fund £ 75 million , and private donations the rest . We now have a cost estimate of around £ 138 million , but are we really suggesting that when the digging starts in Victoria Tower Gardens , the costs will remain anywhere near that ? I suspect that they will escalate considerably to a much higher figure . It does not end there . In 2021 , the then Minister announced that entry to the site would be free . The estimated annual running costs were , at that time , £ 6 million per year . In 2024 , they have risen to somewhere between £ 6.5 million and £ 8.5 million — and , indeed , they could go higher . Of course , we have still not considered the potential security costs , which are , in many respects , a complete unknown . Amendment 1 would restrict the funding to the original amount , which could be increased by substantial private donations . Might the Minister advise the House on the estimated private donations to date , and on what they are likely to be in future , so that we have some indication of the private contributions that could be made to the overall project ? New clause 1 is probably the most important of my two amendments . Security will become a huge issue in the future — we are already acutely aware of it , given the circumstances of what is going on in Gaza . I appreciate that some thought was given to security during the planning process , and would be again , but circumstances have completely changed . If the project goes ahead and we build the memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , we do not want to see them being closed most of the time because of security considerations . Does my hon . Friend agree that there is a serious issue regarding the security of Victoria Tower Gardens if the memorial and education centre are built ? We have already seen the current Holocaust memorial that is based in Hyde Park covered up by the authorities to protect it during a recent pro - Palestine march that went through Hyde Park . My hon . Friend is absolutely right . Security issues should be one of our key considerations as a Committee , which is why I think somewhere like the Imperial War Museum would be a far better location . I will address the security issue in my speech , but I think it is all the wrong way round to make a decision about where to place a memorial to 6 million murdered people because some protesters and activists might threaten it . That is giving in to bad behaviour . Security is one of the many considerations with regard to the site , and I think it is a valid one to look at , but what we want is somewhere that is actively attended — somewhere that people go to on a regular basis , and are not hindered from doing so because of security concerns . My new clause 1 asks the Government to get a security review and bring it to Parliament . That review may well conclude that there is no issue and we should proceed , or it may suggest to Government that there are active concerns and we should respond accordingly . I apologise if I am taking words out of my hon . Friend ’s speech before he gets to them , but was it not Lord Carlile , the Government ’s terrorism adviser , who made the point about security very strongly ? My hon . Friend is exactly right — he certainly did so at that time . I have tabled two amendments to this Bill : one is about cost , and the other is about security . Overall , the security issue must have priority , and I will certainly be looking to push that amendment to a vote , but I will just make some final comments on those amendments and , indeed , the whole project . I believe the amendments to the Bill are sensible and appropriate , and sadly , I feel that unless the Government take a step back and give serious thought to the proposed project , there can be only two ultimate outcomes . Either at some point in the future , someone will have a lightbulb moment , reassess the whole matter , review where we are going with it and maybe draw back from the ideas that are being put forward , or we will press on and potentially create a very expensive white elephant , which will defeat the worthwhile aim of creating the memorial and learning centre that I believe we all want to see . I hope it is the former , rather than the latter , that prevails . First , I thank the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee for its very hard work . That Committee was excellently chaired by my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , and its report makes for interesting reading . It was clear that that cross - party and impartial Committee shares many of the concerns that I and many of my constituents hold . I would go as far as to say that the Committee ’s findings mirror our own criticisms of the Government ’s handling of the whole question of the merits of building a Holocaust memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . Those are that no proper consultation or assessment took place of the merits of Victoria Tower Gardens as a proposed location ; there is no grip on the costs to build it or to maintain it once completed , specifically the cost to the public purse of the ongoing security that will be required ; and no thought has been given to security plans for protecting the park , its visitors , or the children ’s playground at a time of heightened national security risk . I wish to speak to amendments 2 , 3 and 5 , as well as new clause 2 , which stand in my name . I also wish to speak in favour of new clause 1 and amendment 1 , tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle and to which I have added my name . As we reach the Committee stage of this hybrid Bill on the proposal to build a Holocaust memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , a small but much - loved park in my constituency of the Cities of London and Westminster , I wish to reiterate my long - held view that this is the right memorial but the wrong location . I say that as a huge supporter of the Jewish community not only in my constituency but across the nation . I have friends who would not be here if their families had not escaped eastern Europe during the 1930s and ’ 40s . One of my closest friends , Daniel Astaire , certainly would not be here because his grandmother was one of the final children on the Kindertransport and she lost her entire family in what is now the Czech Republic . Having read last summer the outstanding book by Lord Finkelstein , “ Hitler , Stalin , Mum and Dad”—I recommend everybody read that brilliant book — I concluded that we really do need a Holocaust memorial in this country to remind ourselves of past events but also to pay homage to the many British Jews still affected by the Holocaust and who lost so many of their families . This is not about being anti the brilliant idea of a Holocaust memorial , but about its location only . The Select Committee report concluded that no public consultation was undertaken regarding possible locations for the memorial . In fact , Victoria Tower Gardens came about as the idea of an unnamed individual . We can not permit such a precedent to stand : that an individual and then a Committee can decide on a location for such an important memorial without proper consultation . New clause 2 would require the Secretary of State to carry out a consultation on the potential merits of alternative sites for the Holocaust memorial . I absolutely believe — and find it astonishing — that no such consultation was carried out before Victoria Tower Gardens was chosen as the Government ’s preferred location . When the Holocaust memorial was first mooted , it was suggested , as my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle and the Father of the House , my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) have said , that the Imperial War Museum , less than a mile from Parliament , would be an appropriate location . I have visited the Imperial War Museum , including its outstanding Holocaust galleries and exhibitions , numerous times and I believe tourists , school groups and others would sincerely benefit from being able , having visited the galleries , to then spend time in a garden of the Imperial War Museum , which I believe would make an appropriate location for the Holocaust memorial . I remember the first time I visited the Holocaust galleries : I came out after what was a very harrowing experience — a real human harrowing experience — and felt I wanted to sit down and reflect on what I had seen . I absolutely think that having the Holocaust memorial in the Imperial War Museum gardens would be appropriate , because after visitors see the exhibits in the museum they need time to reflect and remember those who have been lost . With such a major proposal as the Holocaust memorial and learning centre , it is imperative that those who would be directly impacted by the construction and then the continuing existence of such an installation — local residents , local businesses , organisations and relevant public bodies — should have been , and should still be , properly consulted . We should also hear the voices of those who have been directly impacted by the atrocities of the Holocaust that took place across eastern Europe during the 1930s and ’ 40s , and the subsequent genocides across the world that we have witnessed since then . Indeed , the Select Committee heard from Holocaust survivors who expressed objections to Victoria Tower Gardens as the chosen location . If we had a consultation , I think we would confirm the public ’s view on the merits of locating the memorial and learning centre at Victoria Tower Gardens , and allow for a full debate on alternative locations that may or may not prove to be more appropriate . I have mentioned the Imperial War Museum , but it does not have to be there . It could be anywhere across our capital , or across the nation — this is , after all , a national memorial . Nevertheless , if after a consultation Victoria Tower Gardens was chosen , I am sure that the plan would receive more good will from local people . I was interested to note in the special report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee that many petitioners had voiced their dismay at the lack of consultation . It highlighted their view that , if a proper consultation had taken place about sites and Victoria Tower Gardens had come out on top , it would have been considered more legitimate . From my many conversations with constituents over the years since this memorial was first suggested , as a counsellor and now as an MP , I have found that what local people want is the confidence that this project is not being steamrollered into being without due consideration , and that a full and proper consultation is undertaken . So much time has passed since the idea of a Holocaust memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens was first mooted that any proposals are more than likely to be out of date . I think I had my first meeting about the proposal in 2016 , as leader of Westminster Council , and we are now eight years on . The costs have clearly skyrocketed with inflation and other pressures on construction . The surrounding area has changed and it continues to change dramatically . For example , the roundabout on the north side of Lambeth bridge is undergoing a fundamental change , which will have consequences for local traffic flow and management . Since the proposal was suggested , we have seen the development of residential areas on that roundabout ; what were once offices now house scores of residents who would be immediately affected by having such an important memorial in their local park . We have to take all sorts of issues into consideration , and there may also have been changes to the water table after the past decade of our living with climate change . Obviously , the security concerns in this part of London have sadly increased in recent times , which I will speak about later . After so much change in the past decade , since the planning application for this installation was made , I consider that it is likely to be out of date . If we are all honest , a new application should really be made to address the developments that have occurred since and to respond to many of the concerns raised in the Select Committee ’s report . For all these reasons , I believe a complete review of the proposal is required , combined with a consultation on the location . Perhaps that is more important than ever before . The special report from the Select Committee makes it clear that local people are concerned about the environmental impact , and I have therefore tabled amendment 2 , which is designed to reduce the damage to Victoria Tower Gardens . This park is a special place for many people . Local residents of course frequent the gardens as their neighbourhood green space , but also many parliamentarians , parliamentary staff , journalists and others find much - needed solace in the park during lunchtime and after work . I have to tell the House that I have been invited to Victoria Tower Gardens this evening to do several interviews , which I may not be doing , but it has always been a favoured place for the media and journalists to undertake interviews . I thank my hon . Friend for giving way and for all her hard work campaigning on this issue . I was on the Select Committee , and what came to light , as she knows , was that residents and a significant number of petitioners from the Jewish community , including some Holocaust survivors , were against this location . One of my biggest concerns is that if this legislation is allowed to go through , it will set a precedent by lifting a covenant on the gardens that will mean they are no longer there for people to enjoy for recreation . It could have planning permission on it , which could open up all sorts of cans of worms across the country . Does she agree ? My hon . Friend makes an excellent point . Having read the Select Committee ’s report , it is clear to me that there is a genuine concern about the Bill setting a precedent , which I will talk about slightly later . The London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 is clear about protecting public spaces . In a constituency such as mine in central London , we do not benefit from huge amounts of neighbourhood green spaces , where a family can just pop out on a Sunday morning after breakfast to give the children a run around . As I have said , thousands of social housing tenants live on Page Street , Regency Street and in the Peabody blocks just behind Great Peter Street , and they do not benefit from having their own gardens and are desperate not to lose their local park . Has my hon . Friend had the opportunity to be in Victoria Tower Gardens on a Saturday or Sunday morning and seen at the south end , where there is a developed play space , large numbers of local mums with their toddlers — not always mums , of course , but often they are — playing in exactly the way we would hope in a green space ? I have seen that . It goes back to the point that for many of us in this Chamber this is a workplace . I am obviously an exception , because this is my constituency , but for most Members of Parliament this is our workspace and then they go home . But this is my home , and I know from local residents — my neighbours — that Victoria Tower Gardens is a much - loved and much - used park . It is not just a workplace for people to do radio or TV interviews ; it is also where people take their children and their dogs for walks . It is much - used and much - loved , and it would be an absolute tragedy if we were to lose an inch of it , in my personal opinion , but I may be in the minority . Madam Deputy Chairman — sorry , I mean Dame Eleanor . This could be my last speech in this place , so I have to get that right . Let us not forget the array of statues situated in Victoria Tower Gardens . They carry special meaning and make it a unique place , and they include the Buxton memorial fountain , which celebrates and commemorates the emancipation of all slaves in the British empire in 1834 . It is in the centre of the gardens and has the most amazing location , for absolutely the right reasons . I note that in the special report from the Select Committee , Mr Richard Buxton , representing the Buxton family and the Thomas Fowell Buxton Society , highlighted concerns that the Holocaust memorial and learning centre should “ not cause any degree of harm either actual or to the setting of any other memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens ” . I thank the hon . Lady her for her amendment , which I am happy to support . Members of the Buxton family live in my constituency , so if the Government were to agree to it , that would go some way towards alleviating their concerns . I did not realise the family connection with the hon . Gentleman ’s constituency . The Buxton memorial is unique and should be protected . We would not want any other memorial encroaching upon it . It is also important to remember that half the entire park itself was a gift to the nation from the newspaper retailer William Henry Smith — the founder of WHSmith — who donated £ 1,000 to preserve it as an open space , on the condition that it would be a place for recreation , particularly for the children of Westminster . The Government of the day agreed . To this day , local schoolchildren and even younger children continue to take advantage of this rare green space in central London . The notion of charity may have been undermined by this proposal . One may ask what it might mean for the future of other such bequests , if other gifts to be used as public space for the benefit of the environment and local people are similarly overridden . Amendment 2 , which stands in my name , seeks to limit the damage to the park to just the memorial , should the proposal go ahead . The Bill in its current form does not provide for the location of the memorial and the learning centre to be on the same site , and it was not stipulated as a prerequisite in the Prime Minister ’s Holocaust Commission report in 2015 . I remember that there was a proposal for the learning and education centre to be in Millbank Tower , as part of the redevelopment . That did not see the light of day , but it would have been a good compromise . We risk Victoria Tower Gardens being completely overwhelmed as a green space by this development spoiling the setting of Parliament , the gardens and the other memorials and , in particular , overshadowing the Buxton memorial . It is my understanding that the learning centre will take up more space than the actual Holocaust memorial , and the Bill does not state that the memorial and the learning centre are in the same place . Amendment 2 would only lift the 1900 Act restrictions for a memorial to be built , not a learning centre . With the passing of the Bill , could it be that no park is protected from similar applications in future ? That is a real concern of the Select Committee . My hon . Friend is making a powerful point , characteristically both passionate and knowledgeable , on behalf of her constituents . I want to put on the record now one point about precedent , given its importance — she is right to highlight it — so that it does not get lost in my remarks when I reply to this wide - ranging Committee debate . This does not set a precedent for the release of other designated open or leisure green space in London — if it did , I would not be advocating for it . Any proposal needs to be adjudged on its merits . It does not create a Trojan horse . It does not open a Pandora ’s box . I say that from the Dispatch Box , should anyone ever challenge it during a planning inquiry , a planning committee or a judicial review on an application for another parcel of green open space , as designated either by the 1900 Act or by other Acts . The view of the Minister , and of the Government , is that it does not create a precedent on which anyone could rely in law . That is an important point to clarify , and I wanted to do so with your leave , Dame Eleanor , as a clear and freestanding point . I thank the Minister for that clarification . I absolutely welcome that . That is a very powerful message to send to any future Government or future Minister who may be sitting in his place . He makes a very good point about any future planning applications , too . My hon . Friend is being generous with her time . It is not — Ha ! I am not entirely sure what has amused my hon . Friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) , but there we are . Some people are easily amused . Let me just make this point . That is not just a binding statement on behalf of the actions of subsequent Governments , but for local authorities , the royal parks and any speculative developer in the private sector . I do not carve it out as a niche , bespoke protection , but as a general blanket cover . I thank the Minister once again for that very clear steer and clarification . It may be too late for a manuscript amendment to the Bill to be accepted by Dame Eleanor — or Madam Deputy Speaker , if we get to the next stages — but would it be possible for the Minister to offer the House an assurance that when the Bill gets to another place , assuming it does , the Government will move an amendment to make plain what he said here ? I thank my hon . Friend , the Father of the House , for his intervention . He makes a very clear point . Perhaps that could be taken through in the Lords . On this whole question of precedent , as anybody who has served any period of time as a local government councillor knows , it is the whole basis of our planning law and has been the case since the Town and Country Planning Act 1947 . I thank my hon . Friend for his intervention . He may recall that the planning authority chose to not grant this application when it was first introduced , but was then steamrollered by the Government via the Planning Inspectorate , so I do not think my constituents would be very happy with his comments . Amendment 3 is designed to ensure that any development of the holocaust memorial and learning centre does not exceed the current proposal of 1,429 square metres . In its current form , the Bill removes obstructions to any Holocaust memorial and learning centre being built in Victoria Tower Gardens , rather than a specific proposed memorial and learning centre . Indeed , one of the Select Committee ’s concerns was that without being attached to a specific plan , lifting the obstructions would risk providing a blank cheque for the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens to take a radically different shape than has been anticipated . There is a genuine concern among local people that without the proper checks and balances the memorial and learning centre may take up much more of the gardens than is currently proposed , and it is unlikely that the current planning system is able to provide a safeguard against that . Therefore , I consider the amendment is completely necessary to safeguard the gardens from over - development . I would welcome the Minister ’s views on the matter and assurances that if the Bill is passed , the proposed 1,429 square metres will not be increased . Finally , amendment 5 , the final amendment tabled in my name , is once again tabled to protect the future of Victoria Tower Gardens from over - development . As I mentioned earlier , there are already treasured memorials in Victoria Tower Gardens and we must do all we can to protect them . The park is a much - loved and much - used public space , and , as I have said , thousands of social housing tenants live within a 10 to 15 - minute walk from it and greatly enjoy it . It is a local neighbourhood green space , one of very few in my constituency . I am deeply concerned , as are residents including the Save Victoria Tower Gardens group , about the impact that the large - scale construction of the memorial and learning centre will have . Amendment 5 would ensure that works can not commence if other monuments already in the gardens are likely to face any harm whatsoever , including harm to their setting or to that of the world heritage site that is the Palace of Westminster . As I said at the beginning of my speech , I also support the amendments tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle . Amendment 1 highlights a real concern , raised by the Select Committee in its report and shared by me and by many of my constituents , about the lack of any proper scrutiny regarding the overall cost of building the memorial and learning centre and — equally important — the ongoing costs of maintenance and security . It seems that the true cost of this project , and the ongoing maintenance and security costs , have yet to be established . The Government ’s initial promise in 2016 to provide £ 50 million of funding has proved to be completely inadequate . I was shocked to learn from a ministerial statement that in the last 12 months the costs had increased from £ 102 million — double the original figure — to £ 137 million , and that the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities had recently recommended a provision for a further £ 58 million in contingency costs , which brings us to a cost of £ 191 million today . What will it be tomorrow , what will be next week , what will it be next year ? I understand that in the case of all projects keeping to budget is increasingly difficult , but I must ask whether we are really getting value for money when we are spending hundreds of millions on a memorial and learning centre rather than spending it on educating young people properly about the horrors of the Holocaust . Does my hon . Friend agree that that that cost is just one example of a system that does not work effectively for the desired outcome ? Virtually everyone in the country would want to see a national Holocaust memorial and a national learning centre , but this is being railroaded through , and that is not the way in which it should happen . People need to feel that they are being taken along rather than being imposed on . I completely agree . Many of my constituents feel that this is being steamrollered and imposed on them without any consultation . They have campaigned so hard over the last eight years , and I pay tribute to them . I note with interest that the construction of the Buxton Memorial Fountain cost a little over £ 70,000 in today ’s money , and I have no idea why the cost of the current proposal runs into hundreds of millions of pounds . Given the increasing pressures on public finances , I urge the Government to take a proper deep dive into the costs of this project , and to consider whether it is still an appropriate use of public money . New clause 1 was also tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle . I note the Select Committee ’s recommendation in its special report for the review proposed in the new clause to be undertaken “ expeditiously ” before any planning application is progressed . I believe it is imperative that a review of the security arrangements of this proposal be undertaken immediately . That is not only financially prudent , but necessary from a national security perspective . Sadly we live in uncertain times , and the dreadful events currently taking place in the middle east are being felt on our own streets , perhaps nowhere more than on the streets of Westminster surrounding Parliament . Let us remember that even if this memorial goes ahead , the playground and part of the park will continue to exist . I note that Lord Carlile , the former independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , has expressed his own concern that the site proposed for the memorial and learning centre presents a very real terrorism risk . It would be unfortunate if , due to increased security concerns , the authorities insisted that the area around the memorial and learning centre should be surrounded by railings and gates , cutting off a wide part of the park from the public , which would be contrary to the idea of Victoria Tower Gardens as a public green space that is accessible for all . I therefore support amendment 1 ’s call for a full - scale security review to be undertaken before the proposals are permitted to proceed to the next stage . Let us recall that the Holocaust memorial located in Hyde park , which I mentioned earlier , was covered up for its own safety during a pro - Palestinian march only a few weeks ago . If the authorities were so concerned about the safety of that Holocaust memorial , surely they would be equally , if not more , concerned about having a major memorial adjacent to the Houses of Parliament . I absolutely agree that we need a memorial to the Holocaust , but as the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee clearly concluded in its report , and as reflected in the amendments tabled by its Chair and by me , having read the report , it is clear that there is more work to be undertaken by the Government on consultation , the consideration of alternative locations , costs and security before the House can have confidence that this Bill can be supported . It is a pleasure to follow right hon . and hon . Members , who have made very important and serious speeches that the House would do well to consider . I support this Bill and the amendments tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , who made some excellent points about the cost of the memorial . Any project that the Government support must make sensible use of taxpayers ’ money , so he is totally right to focus on the cost cap . He is also right to call for a review of security arrangements , for all the reasons that he said . As a former Planning Minister , I am extremely familiar with the labyrinthine processes of consultation , appeals and delays at various stages , the difficulties of addressing the natural demands to protect an area that my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) spoke about so eloquently , and the importance of siting a national memorial of this significance in the heart of London , next to our Parliament . Now that I have been freed from the duties of making such planning decisions and someone else wears that mantle — at least for now — I can simply say that the impetus for a memorial at this time , and in this place , has never been greater following the 7 October attack , which was the largest pogrom against Jews since the Holocaust . I am sure that no one is watching this debate , because they will all be glued to Twitter and looking at what is happening at No . 10 , but these issues will outlive us and our time in this place . People may wonder why I speak about the Holocaust , and they may say , “ You are not Jewish , and you do not have a large Jewish community in Redditch , ” but even if there is only one Jewish person in my constituency , I should speak up in support of the things that matter most to them at this time . Yesterday , the Secretary of State for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities gave an excellent , first - rate speech at a Jewish community centre in north London . He spoke about some things that should shame us all . He spoke about the fact that it is now , in 2024 , an arrestable offence for people to be “ openly Jewish ” near pro - Palestinian marches on the streets of London . He reminded us that there is only one group of people — the Jews — who are told that they are not tolerated in this country , and he said that growing antisemitism “ is a mark of a society turning to darkness and in on itself … It is a parallel law that those countries in which the Jewish community has felt most safe ” are countries where freedom and freedom of speech prosper , and the memorial is a vital part of bolstering Jewish people ’s freedom of speech and their freedom to live in our country . Let us not forget that British Jews who have lived all their lives in our country are the only group who are routinely held up to blame for the actions of foreign Governments . We are all desperately concerned , of course , about the position of innocent Palestinians caught up in the conflict , and we all wish to see the humanitarian relief and a lasting and safe peace in the middle east . I support and applaud the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , who are working tirelessly to achieve those goals , but it should not be necessary to make those points and those caveats over and over again when speaking about the position of British Jews . To do anything else except place the responsibility for this terrible conflict squarely where it belongs , on the shoulders of Hamas — who could even now put down their weapons , release the hostages and stop the bloodshed and starvation of their own people — would be simply playing into the hands of a murderous terrorist organisation that does not respect the right of Israel to exist . It is dedicated only to the elimination of all Jews and the state of Israel from the planet , just as the Nazis were dedicated to those same goals . I speak as a practising Christian in support of other people of faith and tradition . I speak about the vital importance of continuing to stand up for the freedom of a group of people to live their lives in this country without fear of being persecuted for the actions of a foreign Government . I speak as someone who is appalled and deeply concerned by the rise in Holocaust denial — Order . I appreciate that the hon . Lady is dealing with a highly emotive subject , and I think that we would all agree with most or all of what she has just said , but this is the Committee stage of a Bill about a particular structure in a particular place . It is not a time for general speeches about the geopolitical position of the world in general , and I would be grateful if she would confine her remarks to talking about this Bill , which is short and to the point . Thank you , Madam Chairman . I appreciate and value your guidance and I will absolutely abide by it . I hope that the House will see that the reason I make these remarks about the general geopolitical situation is that I wish to show my support for the importance of the memorial in this place at this time , but I will bring my remarks to a conclusion in line with your guidance . I wish to make it clear that I believe that this Holocaust memorial should be placed in Westminster , next to our Parliament ; that is , of course , the matter under consideration , as outlined by the Select Committee . That is because this is where we debate foreign and domestic policy . And of course it is right that we look at all the considerations that have been highlighted by other Members . I would like to ask the Chair ’s permission to make one final comment , which is that the safety of the Jewish community is the canary in the mine , so let us build this lasting memorial with the education centre next to our Parliament , to focus on the existential threat to our Jewish brothers and sisters . I rise to support the Bill in its entirety and against the amendments , which I think will only delay through prevarication getting the Bill on to the statute books . I declare my interest as co - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for the Holocaust memorial and learning centre , as well as an ambassador for Yad Vashem in Jerusalem . I think there is universal agreement that there is a need for a Holocaust memorial and that there should be a learning centre as well . It appears to me that the debate today has centred around where this should be located , what conditions should be imposed and the funding for it , which is the subject of the amendments . We in this country are deeply involved in Holocaust education . It is a requirement on our schools to ensure that young people learn about the horrors of the Holocaust and where the ultimate destiny of antisemitism leads . But the reality is that the survivors of the Holocaust are getting frailer by the day and the Holocaust is fading into distant memory , so it is vital that we capture those survivors ’ testimony and ensure they have had the opportunity to speak to as many people as possible before they unfortunately pass on . It is therefore vital that we have a permanent national institution to preserve the collective memory of the Holocaust . We have to understand the history , what went on and why the Holocaust happened . It is very difficult to contextualise the systematic murder of 6 million people because they were Jewish . It is tough to impart that . Of course , there are memorials and centres around the world , including in Washington , Paris , Cape Town , Melbourne , Sydney , Hong Kong , New York , Boston , Berlin and , of course , Jerusalem . Although we were not occupied by the Nazis , we were part and parcel of defeating them . Tens of thousands of Jewish refugees came to this country to make it their home and , of course , our troops liberated Bergen - Belsen and discovered at first hand the horrors of what had happened to the Jewish population , but that saved countless lives . There are concerns , of course , about Britain ’s role . We should remember that children were almost orphaned by the end of the war and their parents were denied entry to the United Kingdom . Our role is not always to say how wonderful we are , and some of the decisions taken at that time need to be explored . Why , for example , were the train tracks into Auschwitz - Birkenau not bombed ? We had the ability to bomb them to prevent many people from being transported . In the Channel Islands , British police officers actually carried out German policies . We have to recognise this and face up to it , and the learning centre will give us that opportunity . There are obviously concerns about the site ’s location . I take a strong view that it needs to be alongside the principal democratic institutions of our time , namely , the Houses of Parliament . It is clear that this will be a nationally significant building , and the monument will serve to remember those people who were murdered during the second world war . The history is that the then Prime Minister , now the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , had a report from the Holocaust Commission that recommended the construction of a striking and prominent new national memorial to be located in central London . The report recommended that the national memorial should be co - located with a world - class learning centre , so the Bill requires co - location . There is cross - party support . Lord Pickles and Ed Balls , who chaired the commission , committed the Government to providing a site in Victoria Tower Gardens , next door to the Houses of Parliament . I remind colleagues that the 2019 Conservative manifesto committed us to delivering the construction of the planned UK Holocaust memorial . Planning permission for the memorial and learning centre was granted in 2021 , but the High Court ruled in April 2022 that certain sections of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 were an obstacle to construction and therefore quashed the decision to grant planning consent . This Bill is specific in dealing with the restrictions to the siting of the memorial and learning centre . Importantly , it does not grant planning permission , which will still have to go through the normal process . We have heard that some colleagues are concerned about the appropriateness of Victoria Tower Gardens . The reality is that there will still be a requirement for the gardens to remain open to the public . The Bill disapplies only the relevant sections of the 1900 Act to ensure that it does not block the building of this memorial and learning centre in the gardens . I would say that no place in Britain is more suitable for a memorial and learning centre than the gardens next door to Parliament , the very institution where decisions on Britain ’s response in the lead - up to , during and in the aftermath of the Holocaust were made . The point my hon . Friend is making now was not one put forward by the commission , and it was not one put forward by the foundation . Would he agree ? I thank the Father of the House for that intervention . It is clear that the site was chosen by the commission ; it recommended this . The reality is that the development of the planning application followed thereafter , and obviously the impact on the gardens has to be considered . It is right that only Parliament can change the law , and it is right that Parliament should consider whether the unique significance of the Holocaust justifies seeking an exception to the protections it put in place more than 100 years ago . The proposals for the memorial include sensitive landscaping that will improve Victoria Tower Gardens for every user , and more than 90 % of the area of the current gardens will remain fully open after the memorial is built . I understand that my colleagues are concerned about this , but local residents and workers will be able to visit and enjoy the gardens just as they do now . The Holocaust Memorial Bill lifts restrictions in relation only to Victoria Tower Gardens — no other piece of land — and in relation only to a Holocaust memorial and learning centre , and no other form of development . The Bill does not seek to override the planning process , so all the arguments about the use of the park can be properly considered against the benefits of the memorial . Landscape improvements to Victoria Tower Gardens will ensure that this important and well - used green space , as has been mentioned by my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , is made more attractive and more accessible than ever before . The new development will take about 7.5 % of the site . All the mature London plane trees will be protected , and additional planting and improved drainage of the grassed area will increase the overall attractiveness of the gardens . Alongside the riverside embankment wall , new raised boardwalks will be constructed , helping to make the seating more accessible and making it easier for everyone to enjoy views of the Thames . New pathways will link existing memorials and monuments within the gardens , and additional seating will enhance the visitor experience . The playground will be improved . The objective is to ensure that all current uses can continue after the memorial is constructed . All these matters are fully considered as part of the planning process . During his consideration , the planning inspector produced a detailed report with a careful assessment of the impacts on trees , traffic , gardens , playground and all other relevant matters , and then recommended that planning consent be given . The construction phase of the UK Holocaust memorial and learning centre is expected to last around three years . The project team aims to make phased closures and reopenings of different sections of the park to ensure that as much of the park as possible is available for all users while the work carries on to produce this important memorial . The learning centre will include a powerful exhibition that will provide context for the memorial and encourage reflection on the relevance of the Holocaust for Britain today . From visiting really serious Holocaust museums , as I have done in Washington and Berlin , I know that they are vast spaces . This is a story that takes a huge amount of time and space to explain . The trouble is that the proposed learning centre is really a tiny space , and it simply will not do justice to the horror of what we are talking about . I thank my right hon . Friend for that contribution . I am one of those who visited the original Yad Vashem in Jerusalem before it was expanded . Personally , I found the original Yad Vashem even more intimate and poignant than the current Yad Vashem . I understand what my right hon . Friend has to say , but I think this centre will be appropriate for what we are seeking to achieve . One aspect that has been discussed is security . The learning centre will obviously have entry security arrangements similar to other public buildings in Westminster . I know that the Government — I look to the Minister to comment on this when he contributes to the debate — are working with security experts , agencies and the Metropolitan police to develop the necessary level of security measures . Victoria Tower Gardens will continue to be freely accessible to all . Therefore , the security threats should not be an argument against this memorial ; rather , they are an argument for why the memorial is needed in the first place . As I have said , only 7.5 % of the land will be taken up by the memorial at the very southern point of the park . There will still be a clear view of Parliament from all other parts of the park . The Buxton memorial has been mentioned , with concerns about overshadowing . I do not want to be nit - picking , but the southern part of the park is a children ’s playground . Although some people say it will not be reduced in size , others think it will be reduced in size by 30 % . The 7.5 % figure is challenged by very many people , but it is probably not the time to go into ground plans . We can debate whether the figure is 7.5 % or 10 % , but the key point is that more than 90 % of the park will be preserved . The plan for the memorial is that it will be no higher than the Buxton memorial and its bronze fins will step down progressively to the east , in visual deference to the Buxton memorial . The memorial was designed by Ron Arad specifically for Victoria Tower Gardens . Some suggestions have been made about the Imperial War Museum . To my knowledge , the Imperial War Museum supports the memorial being situated in Victoria Tower Gardens and has no wish for the memorial to be built in its grounds . A detailed flood risk assessment was prepared as part of the planning application . It concluded that Victoria Tower Gardens is heavily protected by the River Thames flood defences , significantly reducing the risk of flooding on site . On the issue of antisemitism , I do not think anyone would claim this memorial will be the answer to solving more than 2,000 years of antisemitism . However , it will be a reminder to those in the Houses of Parliament of the potential to abuse democratic institutions to murderous consequences , in stark contrast to the true role of democracy in standing up and combating racism , hatred and prejudice wherever it is found . Some hon . Members have suggested that certain members of the Jewish community do not support the proposed site . As everyone knows , the Jewish community is not a homogeneous group and there will be multiple differences of opinions , as within any community . Supporters of having the memorial on this site include the Chief Rabbi , the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the chair of the Jewish Leadership Council and chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust , to name but a few , plus many Holocaust survivors . The funds assigned to the project are for a Holocaust memorial . The funds have not been diverted from educational budgets and there is no reason to think that abandoning the memorial would mean funds being reassigned to any other project . The Jewish Museum was not consulted before the joint letter from different members of the Jewish community was written , but the museum plans to reopen in a central London location in the near future , so its concerns should be noted . The aims of the memorial and the Jewish Museum are complementary , but not the same . The memorial will set the Holocaust within a context that includes the history of antisemitism , including in Britain , and of subsequent genocides . There have been multiple consultations with members of the Jewish and survivor communities . At every stage of the planning inquiry , individuals and groups have been able to give written and oral evidence . The planning inspector took great care to allow all voices to be heard at the inquiry and he recorded all evidence in his very detailed report . After taking account of all views , he recommended that planning consent should be granted . Some people say there is no rush . The original proposal was made in 2015 ; we are now nine years on . Even if the Bill makes rapid progress and the development takes place , the memorial will take longer to develop than the extent of the Holocaust . We owe it to the survivors to get on with the job as quickly as possible . The survivors themselves are asking for that . Harry Bibring spoke to Sky News back in 2017 , but sadly passed away a few days after the interview . He said : “ I ’m very much looking forward to the completion of the new Holocaust Memorial in the Victoria Tower Park next to the Parliament , which we ’re going to have a learning centre as well as just a monument and I do n’t know whether I ’ll live to see it , but it ’s in planning stage in Westminster Council and I hope nothing goes wrong ” . Manfred Goldberg , a Holocaust survivor said in May 2023 : “ I was 84 when Prime Minister David Cameron first promised us survivors a national Holocaust Memorial in close proximity to the Houses of Parliament . Last month I celebrated my 93rd birthday and I pray to be able to attend the opening of this important project . ” Sir Ben Helfgott , a Holocaust survivor and an Olympic weightlifter , who sadly passed away last year , wrote in 2021 : “ I look forward to one day taking my family to the new national memorial and learning centre , telling the story of Britain and the Holocaust . And one day , I hope that my children and grandchildren will take their children and grandchildren , and that they will remember all those who came before them , including my mother , Sara , my sister , Luisa , and my father , Moishe . ” Susan Pollack , a Holocaust survivor speaking at a parliamentary reception earlier this month : “ I am 93 years old . My dream is to see this memorial and learning centre finally built and to see the first coachload of school children arrive and ready to learn . That is what it is all about . And , hopefully , those students will learn what happened to me and become beacons of hope in the fight against contemporary antisemitism . ” I end by expressing my hope that we can complete the Committee stage of the Bill , get on to Third Reading and usher the Bill rapidly through the House of Lords , so that those brave survivors of the Holocaust will live to see the development of the memorial and the learning centre . It is a privilege to follow my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . Given the news that has just broken , this may be the last time that I speak in this Chamber — and the last time that anybody from the Brigg and Goole constituency speaks , given that we are being abolished and split four ways . If it is the last time that I speak , I would like to say that it has been an absolutely huge privilege — the privilege of my life — to serve the people of Brigg and Goole and the Isle of Axholme . It is also a privilege to speak on a subject such as this , which is so close to my heart and something that I feel so passionately about . First , let me pay tribute to Lord Pickles and Ed Balls for the work that they have done on this memorial , which is going to happen . I have absolute confidence that this memorial will be built . I was in the tent pavilion just a couple of weeks ago when representatives from the Government and the Opposition attended an event for Yom HaShoah . Both Front - Bench teams attended to confirm yet again , in front of Holocaust survivors and members of the community , that this memorial will be built and that it will be built next to Parliament . I was very grateful for that confirmation , as were the members of the Jewish community groups and the survivors who were there . I also want to pay tribute to my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) . I did not necessarily agree with what he had to say , but he did chair the hybrid Bill Committee . As a fellow Chair of a hybrid Bill Committee , I wish him every success , because his Bill actually made it back to this place . On the HS2 Bill , which I chaired , we spent a year or more listening to petitioners , as he had done , but that turned out to be in vain . We should not worry , though , because those three afternoons a week that we lost were not without some value . I also want to apologise to my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for speaking on a matter that is in her constituency . I suppose that it is the burden of representing this area . I would be very protective and my hackles would be well and truly up if I had people interfering in my patch , so , although I apologise for that , I am going to be a hypocrite and now interfere in her constituency . But I may not be the first person in here to have engaged in hypocrisy . Last night , I hosted an event here for Terraforming , a civil society group from Serbia . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests because I recently visited that organisation in Serbia . We held that event here in Parliament to showcase the story of Serbian Jewry and what happened to them during second world war and the somewhat unique way in which Serbia was divided up . The process of the Holocaust in Serbia was very different depending on where in Serbia the Jewish community lived , but the result was of course the same . The group was so proud to hold that event here in Parliament , the seat of the British Government . It meant so much to them to tell that story here . That is why having the memorial next to this building — intrinsically linked to it , emotionally and physically — is so important . As we told the story of what happened to the Jews of Serbia , I was reminded of the visit that I made back in April on the 80th anniversary of the deportation of the Jews of Novi Sad , in the part of Serbia that was occupied by the Hungarian fascist regime . Those Jews were herded into a synagogue on , I believe , 26 April , held there for two days without drink and food , and then shipped off , largely to Auschwitz , and murdered . That synagogue still stands , and we stood in it 80 years to the day on which the Jews of Novi Sad were rounded up and forced into it . Again , that reminded me of the value of having a place to memorialise and remember what happened . We are lucky in Britain , with the exception of the Channel Islands , not to have had that experience ourselves , so we do not have venues in which what happened during the Holocaust took place . That is why it is so important to have a memorial close to the seat of Government . I am probably the only person present who , when I had a proper job , which I now may well have to return to , taught the Holocaust curriculum to our young people as a history teacher . Such education is perhaps more important than ever , as living memory of the Holocaust fades . People of my generation — officially I am 35 , but that may or may not be the truth — had grandparents and family who were directly involved in world war two , so the Holocaust and the experience of world war two was living history for us . For anybody who is below my generation , that is not the case . We have increasingly less living testimony , which is why it is more important than ever that we create new resources and facilities where that testimony can live on for those who are not connected in the same way that people of my generation were , because of our grandparents , or that the generation before was , because of their parents . As a history teacher , I would have very much valued having a place in the nation ’s capital to which we could have brought young people to not only tell them the story of the Holocaust and its horrors but then relate it to how this place , and the decisions that were taken here , played such an important role in ultimately demolishing the machinery of murder that led to the herding of human beings on to cattle trucks in the millions , their transportation to concentration camps , and then ultimately their murder in gas chambers . To have had a place to bring my students , next to this place , which is so important in the story of how the Nazi regime and the Holocaust were ended , would have been so valuable . Despite the brilliant work of organisations such as the Holocaust Educational Trust , we sadly can not take all the young people in this country to Europe to see the concentration camps . That is not possible , but the ability to bring young people to somewhere central in this country where we can tell them about not only the experience and the horrors of the Holocaust but the very proud role that our democratic institutions played at that time is so important . Why is this now more important than ever before ? To answer that question , it is important to remember how the Holocaust started . It did not start with Auschwitz . That was the end . It did not start with gas chambers or with cattle trucks ; it began with the demonisation of a people purely because of their racial and religious background . Its form , I am afraid to say , is familiar in what we see today . Jewish students were banned from university campuses , and we see Jewish students being questioned and being prevented from gaining access to university campuses across much of the west at the moment . The Holocaust began with the demonisation of Jews . We see that now through the demonisation of the state of Israel , which is a cover for the demonisation of Jews . It began with boycotts , with people demanding an end to purchasing from Jewish companies and businesses , shop windows being smashed and synagogues being attacked . A synagogue in Toronto was smashed up this week for the second time . It began with attacks on Jewish community facilities , and we have seen that across the west at this moment in time . This week I sat down with students from the Union of Jewish Students , who told me of the genuinely horrific experiences Jewish students are having on campuses in this country at this time , which have manifested in Jews being afraid to wear anything that marks them out as Jewish . I am proud to be a Reform Jew and I wear my kippah in synagogue , but since 7 October I have deliberately worn it on public transit in this country , to show my pride and my lack of fear . Of course , I am a 6 feet 2 inches big overweight bloke , so I perhaps have more confidence in doing that , but I have been proud to do that at a time when very many people in the community are not . I am grateful to my hon . Friend for giving way and glad to be hearing what he is saying , both giving testimony for himself and standing up for those who might be more frightened . Does he agree that those who want to see how the Holocaust developed should go to the Holocaust galleries at the Imperial War Museum , where the displays , as my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) said , are very impressive and very moving ? They are indeed — it is a brilliant presentation . I am also very proud that every Holocaust Memorial Day in my local community , particularly in Brigg , the town council ensures that we have a display at Brigg Heritage Centre telling the story of the Holocaust and how we got there . That is really important . However , the reason I have set out the comparison between what we had in the 1920s and 1930s and what we have today is that those parallels are genuinely frightening for Jews in this country at this moment in time . Of course , that precursor to the Holocaust involved the marching of people through streets in Europe , holding banners and signs singling out Jews for special treatment , demanding boycotts and othering the Jewish community , and that is exactly what we have seen in these past few months . That leads me on to another argument that has been put in this debate about security . I made some reference to this when I intervened a little earlier , but the idea that we should not build this memorial and learning centre next to Parliament because of security concerns is something I have a real problem with . That is effectively saying to those people who have sought since 7 October , and in many cases well before then , to demonise , frighten and scare Jewish people , that they have won . It is saying that we are so cowed as a people , as a nation and as a democracy by people who shout loudly and aggressively on the street that they get their way and we will put it somewhere else — we will stick it over in Lambeth . I do not think that is an appropriate or credible argument against putting this facility next to Parliament . My hon . Friend the Member for Harrow—[Interruption . ] East ! East , of course — as someone from East Yorkshire , I say east is always best . My hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) dealt well with the security concerns . We bring young people here to learn about our democracy in the learning centre , and they have to go through a similar process , so I do not believe that should be an impediment . We have heard about the loss of green space . I am not a resident of the area , so I have no selfish interest in whether I can walk my dog in the park . As my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East made clear , the land take will be 7.5 % . I find it a bit of a strange argument to say , “ Do n’t build this here because it takes some green space away . Build it over there , where it takes somebody else ’s green space away . ” I am not sure that I buy that argument either . We have heard arguments about the Jewish community . Some people have prayed the Jewish community in aid as being against the proposal , but the Jewish community is not homogenous , so there will be very different views . It is worth reiterating again that , as my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East very eloquently made clear , Jewish leadership in this country , including the Chief Rabbi and those at the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Jewish Leadership Council , whom we in government and Parliament rely on and trust to be representatives of their communities , have been clear that they support the memorial at that site . Again , my hon . Friend stole some of my thunder by quoting so eloquently — better than I could have done — some of the Holocaust survivors who so dearly wanted to see the memorial built . Fortunately some are still with us , and I hope they will see it built , but others have passed . It is clear that although there is not one homogenous view , Jewish leadership groups and community leaders absolutely support the memorial being built next to this place . The Father of the House , my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , whom I respect very much , described the proposal as a “ box ” , which I did not think was an appropriate way of describing it , and there have been other comments about the size of the venue . I do not believe that size should be an impediment to coming away from the memorial having had a truly moving and educational experience . As highlighted by my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East , who I am mentioning often — I have to be nice to him at last , after 14 years of us being here together — Yad Vashem is an incredibly powerful place . The parts of it that I find most moving are the small memorial to the children and the room with the photographs , which are so powerful and moving . I do not believe that size should be an argument . It seems strange to argue about costs and say at the same time , “ But it ’s not big enough ; maybe it needs to be bigger but somewhere else , ” which may result in it being much more expensive . I am conscious that the debate is time limited , but I wanted to make this contribution . I believe and hope that the memorial will be built . At the moment , we are seeing a record rise in Jew hate , in antisemitism , so it is more important than ever that the memorial and learning centre stands next to this place , which is the thin blue line — or red line , or whichever colour we want to call it—[Hon . Members : “ Green line ! ] It is the thin green line — and red line — between mob rule and democracy . Over the past few months , that line has been tested in a way it has not been tested for quite some time . That is why it is my deepest belief that the location next to this place — which is all that stands between us and despotism — should be pursued . As we saw in Europe in the 1930s , and as we see even today in parts of the world , democratic institutions are very fragile . On that basis , I will be opposing the amendments this evening , and I look forward to the Bill passing . As Members know , everything must conclude by six minutes past 7 , and I want to give at least eight to 10 minutes for the Front Benchers to be able to contribute . Rather than imposing a time limit , I ask people to look at around the 10 - minute mark , which will give everybody an opportunity . Of course , Sir Peter gets two minutes right at the very end . It is a great pleasure to follow my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . If that was his last speech in this place and representing his constituency , may I say that he does it proud ? He does his constituency proud , and he has done his constituency proud . The House and his party are proud , and his service to this House and his eloquence are known to all . I congratulate him on that . I will begin by addressing some of the points that have been made during the course of this debate , and perhaps putting to rest some of the suggestions that have been posited . One is that this Bill is in some way being steamrollered , which I suggest can not be anything other than a flight of fancy . In fact , this measure has taken many years — close to a decade from its earliest formations . It has not quite reached the Dickensian Jarndyce v. Jarndyce level of bureaucracy and contemplation , but I do not think it is accurate to claim that it has in any way been steamrollered . I also do not think it is in any way appropriate to say that security concerns — legitimate though they may be — are a good reason to countenance removing this important centre to another location . We must stand up against the thugs , the violence and the vandals . We in this House are a thin green line , and hopefully not that thin ; hopefully , we represent the vast majority of people who defy those who would vandalise Holocaust memorials , and who hold in contempt those who would disgrace themselves and the freedoms , democracy and ancient history of this country by vandalising the memorial to the dead . Not only is that a wickedness and a blasphemy to those who have fallen , it is a type of fascism that is a disgrace to those who perform it , and we must stand up against it . We must say , “ I ’m not going to refuse to build a location of historic importance on a particular site because some criminals may choose to graffiti it . We defy you , and we stand up against you . We do not buckle to those security concerns . ” We need a prominent memorial marking the Holocaust because , sadly , recent events have shown that we could see it happening again . It is not fanciful to say that such a thing could happen again . There are voices in this House who have heckled Members , including myself when I have spoken out against antisemitism , and there are voices outside who care about every nuance of other people ’s rights — about microaggressions — but do not care about Jewish women and girls being brutally raped and savagely tortured while hostages in the pogrom of 7 October . We have seen a refusal by respected authorities around the world to accept that Hamas are a terrorist organisation and that what they did on 7 October is unparalleled since the actual Holocaust of 1939 to 1945 . In defying that truth , they show the world that it is not impossible that such an atrocity , or something like it , could occur again . That is why we need a memorial . To those who ask , “ Why does it have to be here ? ” , I say that it has to be here because this is the seat of our democracy . This is where our democracy ’s fulcrum rests . This is the burning location of that democracy , where the fires of passionate argument have burnt almost since time immemorial , and Victoria Tower Gardens is part of this historic site . Of course one must be conscious of local residents , but one must also remember that this is to be a national memorial ; it is of national importance . Protesters come here every week , in relation to myriad topics , because they know that this is where the action is ; this is where democracy lies ; this is where people meet to make decisions about the future . For that same reason , the memorial should be in a location that is centred where people will not forget it . As the great figures of the recent past — Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela , Mohandas Gandhi and other towering figures of post - war history — have made clear , it is not those who sow division and fan the flames of conflict who bring light and hope to the world . Those who use their oratory to promote division and hatred on the streets or elsewhere are here today and gone tomorrow ; they do not matter . They are like wasps at a picnic whose buzz spreads momentary fear , and perhaps whose sting is sharp but short - lived . Wasps produce an alarming noise , but their presence is fleeting and their sting is temporary . We must not let those people deafen us to the realities — the cold , hard realities — of why such a memorial in this location is necessary . Feeling the need to cover up a memorial , or wishing to cover it up , is not a good reason to place it elsewhere . The spreading of hate , the poison of sectarian hatred , the language of conflict and the vitriol of division may easily arouse the weak - minded , the ignorant and the mob — they always have done and always will do . There are the Twitter warriors , the anonymous , the fascist apologists . But the forces of light have always been stronger than the forces of darkness . The Chief Rabbi , the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the Holocaust Educational Trust , whose very job it is to educate the younger generations about the Holocaust , all support this project . That , I think , is telling . rose — Forgive me . The Jewish people in this country are a very small minority . There are many constituencies where there will be no Jews at all — literally none — and many others where there will perhaps be only a dozen or two . Jews represent only 0.3 % of the population of this country , at around 250,000 people in a population of 70 million . In a world of 7 billion people , there are only 17 million Jews — a small but strong . Jews love life and they seek peace . They are not an homogenous group ; they do not all speak as one . One need only look at Israeli democratic politics for five minutes to see the divisions within Israeli society . They are not all going to agree about everything , just as all black people do not , or all redheaded people . They are not an homogenous group , but they love this country , they are respectful to it and grateful for it , and many seek to serve it , as I have tried to do , and I hope that long continues . I say to those Jewish people who may be listening , “ Look not to the noisy wasps to which I have alluded , but instead to a Prime Minister whose moral stance has been clear . ” The Prime Minister is a great hero to the British Jewish community , and not because there are many votes in it — there are not , for the reasons I have just given — but because it is morally the right thing to do . The same is true of our royal family . For example , the Prince of Wales recently visited a synagogue and spoke with an elderly Holocaust survivor , which is testament to the support of the monarchy , and I dare say would have made the late Queen proud . We need this memorial . Jews are not cowering with trembling knees , although maybe that happened in previous generations . They stand in the face of adversity , knowing that in this country there are many more of the Christian faith , the Hindu faith , the Sikh faith , the Buddhist faith and the Muslim faith who will stand with us and protect us , and who will stop those who seek to harm and intimidate the Jewish community . We need a memorial to remind people of that . It needs to be in this location because of its paramount and historic importance , and to remind people why , indeed , the state of Israel has to exist . To those who have an unnatural and unforgiving animus towards the Jews and who disguise it as hatred towards Israel and in other ways , I say that they are just twigs cracking in an empty forest , or birds chirping on a desert island , because their voices will be weak and ineffectual if those of us in this House speak as one . Those tiny voices and cracking noises in the wilderness will be drowned out in a crowd of millions . This memorial is needed and must continue . I rise to speak in support of this Bill and against the amendments , however nobly argued and well intentioned they are . I share the view of my right hon . and learned Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) that this has been a long time in the making and further prevarication will simply mean that the objective of establishing a memorial gets pushed out further and further , which is not a good reflection on this Government ’s determination to see it come about . I speak as a commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , and I was very pleased that we had the opportunity to have a debate in Government time during War Graves Week last week . As was made clear by Members right across the House through every contribution , the commission does a magnificent job of maintaining memorials to the fallen in many countries around the world . Many of those are very substantial structures that were built in the immediate aftermath of the first world war primarily , with some following the second world war . I think I am right in saying that the time it took to construct each of those memorials is less than the time it has taken us to get this memorial legislation through the House . That is shocking , frankly , and we need to put it right . I have visited many of the Commonwealth war grave memorials and , like other Members , I have also visited some of the Holocaust memorials , notably in Berlin . So I am aware of the pressure of visitor numbers for people who live in major cities where the Holocaust is commemorated or where there are memorials to the fallen . Those places become significant tourist attractions for visitors who wish to pay their respects and to recognise the suffering and the sacrifices that have been made . I therefore understand the pressure that this proposal will place at the heart of our city , adjacent to Parliament . But it is right that any memorial should be in a prominent location that is easy to access and at the heart of the nation , so that it can have the kind of impact we wish to see . If you will allow me , Mr Evans , I will stray just a little off the immediate point of the amendments to read briefly from an article that I wrote nine and a half years ago , in January 2015 , in the week after the then Prime Minister , David Cameron , with cross - party support , accepted the recommendations of the Holocaust Commission to build a national memorial with a world - class learning centre and an endowment fund to secure Holocaust education forever . What I wrote then remains valid today , and it is the reason I am taking this stance . Each year , many Members of this House across all parties sign the Holocaust Educational Trust ’s book of commitment to mark international Holocaust Memorial Day . The book honours those who died during the Holocaust , as well as those extraordinary survivors , of whom there are very few left today , who have devoted their lives since their experiences through the Holocaust to educate younger generations about what they endured . This year , Holocaust Memorial Day took place on the 79th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . In that article , I wrote : “ As the deadliest concentration camp under the Third Reich , the name Auschwitz is synonymous with the Holocaust . One in six Jews who died were killed at the camp , approximately one million people . But even for those who survived , the scars of their incarceration , both physical and mental , would remain for the rest of their lives . Few who did survive are still with us , but their stories are as important now as ever . A few years ago I visited Auschwitz with students from Bridgnorth , and it is an experience that will remain with me for the rest of my life . The site is a haunting remnant of a regime ’s attempt to wipe an entire people from the face of the earth . The sheer number of those who lost their lives in concentration camps across Europe is almost incomprehensible . But the large piles of personal effects , like spectacles or shoes , taken from those walking to their deaths really brought home to me just how many were killed . The collection of children ’s toys was particularly heartrending . That man is capable of such inhumanity , based on an adherence to a doctrine of hate , is a chilling thought . But to shy away from retelling one of the darkest periods of human history would be an injustice to those who lost their lives . Instead , it is essential we continue to educate the next generation so they are aware of what happened under the Nazi regime , and develop a more tolerant society free from racism , prejudice and bigotry . ” The need for such a memorial in the UK is no less now , as we see increased reports of antisemitism , for reasons that we can all understand . rose — I am afraid I will not give way , because I have already extended the patience of the Chairman . I will conclude by saying that we have to stop prevaricating and get on with construction . I support the Bill and will not support the amendments to it . I know that everybody is glued to their mobile phones about the announcement of the general election , but this debate is important , because we are commemorating the greatest crime in history . I thought my right hon . and learned Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) spoke movingly about antisemitism , and I start my speech by saying that I agree with every single thing he said . He said it so well . It was a brilliant speech . This Bill is tremendously important , but I want to speak in support of my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and her amendment 2 . Time is short so I can not expand on the crimes of the Holocaust , but I want to talk about the detail of what we are debating . Amendment 2 , tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster , sums up what I have long been campaigning for . I declare an interest , as a worker here for 41 years . I live about a mile away , as we all do — we all live locally and work here , so we all take an interest . I have been arguing , as I said in an intervention on my hon . Friend the Father of the House , that we could have sorted this out eight years ago by having a fantastic memorial in the gardens of a similar size to the slavery memorial — also an incredibly important issue . I have never been in favour of the underground learning centre . Because this is such a vital issue and we have a duty to the Jewish community , the local community and everyone else , we must proceed by consensus . We should not cause divisions on this . I make one last plea to the Government to proceed by consensus , as my hon . Friend the Father of the House and my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster are trying to do . The Jewish community is not homogeneous , but it is concerned . In a 2018 letter to The Times signed by eight Jewish peers , they expressed deep reservations about the project as it is currently proposed , and they knew what they were talking about . I know that Lord Cameron , as Prime Minister , was working with the best of intentions , and I understand the whole argument about the proximity to the Palace and recognising the importance of what we are talking about , but the decision was made without any proper consultation or investigation . Any further consideration shows numerous flaws in this particular site . We need to get into the detail . The design calls for a significant underground portion , even though it is located next to a river . In June 2016 , 50 local properties flooded from underneath after a heavy downpour . It is built on Thorney Island , the original settlement of London , surrounded by ancient marshland in which the water table can rise alarmingly after sudden rainfall . Victoria Tower Gardens is maintained by the Royal Parks , which has never supported the memorial in that location . Its chairman Lord Grossman , himself Jewish , said that there are “ concerns about the potential risk of such a building on the intrinsic qualities of a well - used public park in an area of the city with a limited number of open spaces . ” This is such a built - up area and such a well - loved park , specifically made for the people of London as a tiny oasis of green . There is a fear , which the Minister tried to deal with , that this could be used as a precedent . The park was protected specifically by an Act of Parliament in 1900 , and those statutory protections are being undermined . This small garden — one of the smallest parks in London in one of the most built - up areas — can only really accommodate a smaller memorial without damaging its characteristics . I do not think that anyone has made the point so far that the design introduces an 18 - metre ramp . A wide moat would split the park , and much of the existing broad swathes of grass will be replaced by paving . We want as many people as possible , especially schoolchildren and young people , to visit the national Holocaust memorial . Existing pressures on Millbank will only be compounded by traffic seeking to access it . There are no plans to deal with the expected coach traffic and halting — I am sorry to go into such detail , but it is central to what we are talking about . No parking spaces or drop - off zones are proposed . The local area ’s Thorney Island Society has objected . Many other people have made fantastic arguments , which have been dismissed , not dealt with and not answered . For most local residents , this useful park and open space would cease to function as such . Many ordinary uses of this neighbourhood park , especially those related to dogs , would be inappropriate if a Holocaust memorial were the focal point . The restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster — I am on the board with you , Mr Chairman — is an ongoing project that we are still debating . Victoria Tower Gardens could play an essential role in works related to the Palace . Undoubtedly , some part of the park will have to be taken for that . We need more flexibility . The costs have risen exponentially . Taking up a large space for the Holocaust memorial will limit the range of action for renovating the Palace . We are now talking , on the Restoration and Renewal Programme Board , about having a new visitor entrance from the park . Again , that is not being considered . The most impactful Holocaust memorials in the world , such as those in Washington , Berlin and Israel , all of which are visited , are enormous . They take up a space far bigger than this Chamber , on many levels . As my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) made clear , we have to tell the story bit by bit . You move from room to room , and you understand how hate built up . We need to have a proper museum , a proper Holocaust memorial , similar to those in Berlin and Washington where the whole story can be told . I do not think that this small underground learning centre will in any way address that point . I will end on this point , because I know that time is very precious . In his closing remarks , my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the Father of the House , really summed it up . This proposal is too big for this small park , but it is too small for the gravity of the issues we are addressing . Order . As I said , the conclusion of the debate is at six minutes past seven . There is clearly a bit more time , so perhaps time to take interventions and so on . It is a pleasure to speak in this debate on behalf of the SNP . It is perhaps slightly unexpected for some that I am standing here , but anyone who is aware of the areas of interest that I pursue here will be less surprised . I will go through some of the amendments and new clauses , and share some things that I think are worth pulling out . The comments made so far have been profoundly helpful in teasing out some of the details . The hon . Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) spoke very well about the importance of education . That is the key point of amendment 6 and something I have spoken about often in this place : the necessity of a focus on education and making sure that the testimony of survivors is captured in a way that will ensure it is available to generations who come after us . Through initiatives like Vision Schools Scotland , or working with organisations like the Anne Frank Trust or the Holocaust Educational Trust , we can see the impact of education . The necessity of marrying up education with the memorial is a profoundly helpful idea . We will not be able to take the lessons of the past , which we talk about so easily , if we do not make concrete efforts to make it a reality when we say that we never want to see it again . Amendment 1 , tabled by the hon . Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , makes a reasonable point , which is that it would be sensible to be sure that the costs are properly accounted for and that there is an appropriate level of control . That is a key point . This is , rightly , an ambitious project , so his amendment is an interesting one . His point about potential private donations is interesting in ensuring the ability for the project to move forward in an appropriately ambitious way . I am sure the Minister will share further information on all of that . On amendments 2 , 3 and 5 , the hon . Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) spoke very powerfully about her local community , as well as the Jewish community . How all those things come together is very important . She spoke very passionately and sincerely about her desire for a consultation . I understand why she is so concerned about that . My own personal concern , which weighs on me slightly , is that that would also mean more time would elapse . Her amendments made sense : she is looking to add some clarity to the specifics , such as where restrictions relating to the land might be removed — the Minister was helpful in trying to clarify that — and what the overall footprint would be . That will be allocated and it does matter , regardless of where it is going to happen . I understand the need for clarity and reassurance for residents and other users of , for instance , Victoria Tower Gardens , and I understand why the hon . Lady wants that level of confidence to be provided for the people who live in this community . I imagine that , given the kind of memorials that are located in that particular park , people in general would want to take comfort from the fact that they could be protected in an appropriate way . Surely , though , it is possible for us to have a memorial and an education centre and to protect those existing memorials . The hon . Member for Worthing West spoke earlier about the state of repair of the Buxton Memorial Fountain . Perhaps there needs to be a bigger conversation about these issues . As is clear from the Bill ’s “ Extent , commencement and short title ” , it is an England and Wales Bill , which is why some people might not have expected to see me rise to speak . It concerns a planning matter that relates to a different country , from my perspective , so I will not comment on the details of , for instance , the planning and location issues raised by the hon . Member for Carlisle . What I will say is that I am here today only because I think it profoundly important for us to see concrete proposals that can be implemented as soon as possible to deliver a Holocaust memorial and learning centre . We can not lose sight of that , and it should not be lost among the — admittedly also important — details . The territorial extent provision in clause 3 speaks for itself , so I will not go there . The hon . Member for Carlisle talked about security . None of us need to look too far to appreciate the need for us to think seriously about the security provisions that will be necessary . The world is increasingly polarised and we need to ensure that everyone is secure , and that will be particularly important in this instance . I am not sure whether new clause 1 is flexible enough to allow for the necessary measures — which will surely change as times change — to be amended without undue delay , but no doubt the hon . Member thought about that when he tabled the new clause . I am sure that other Members share my concern about the spikes in hate crime , including the frightening spike in antisemitism incidents . We know that , regrettably , these spikes have happened in the past as well , and any security arrangements will have to be able to cope with changeable times . As for new clause 2 , tabled by the hon . Member for Cities of London and Westminster , we have been down this road many times , and I wonder whether the measures that she has proposed will cause further delay . Some people may say that it would not be appropriate to rush in , and of course that is true , but I do not think anyone could reasonably accuse this project of having been dealt with in a rush . Let me say , as a Scottish MP who has no jurisdiction in this geographical area , that this is a really important matter , so by all means let there be further consideration , but can we just get on with it ? I call the shadow Minister . Before I begin my brief remarks about the amendments , let me restate the Opposition ’s support for the construction of a national Holocaust memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . Given that this simple three - clause Bill does nothing more than remove pre - existing legislative impediments to the siting of such a memorial and centre in that location and make provision for , and in connection with , expenditure related to its establishment , we have not felt the need to table any amendments to it today . We sincerely hope — not least in view of the amount of time that has now passed since the idea was first proposed in 2015 — that the Bill completes its remaining stages and receives Royal Assent as speedily as possible , so that the necessary planning application can be considered . I turn now to the amendments , starting with new clause 2 , which stands in the name of the hon . Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . We fully appreciate that , although we are united as a House in our commitment to establish a national Holocaust memorial and a world - class learning centre , there are differing and sincerely held views about the appropriateness of Victoria Tower Gardens as the location for them . In some cases , the objection extends only to the siting of the learning centre in that location ; in others , it extends to both the centre and the memorial itself . Let me be clear : we believe that there are valid criticisms to be made about the adequacy of historical consultation . The Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee is right to highlight that a full consultation at the site selection stage would have not only leant more legitimacy to the final site decision , but identified the constraint that clause 2 seeks to remove much earlier , thereby potentially avoiding much of the delay that has occurred as a result of its late identification — a point well made by the hon . Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) . That said , we do not believe it would be appropriate to amend the Bill — which , as the House knows , does not mandate the use of any particular location — with a view to using it as a means of reconsidering the location determined by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation and confirmed by the Government in 2016 . Hon . Members from across the House may disagree with the decision , but Victoria Tower Gardens was identified as the preferred location eight years ago . That decision has been the subject of considerable scrutiny through the planning process and , in our view , any attempt to reopen it risks significant further delay to the construction of the memorial . That would be unacceptable . The Bill itself will obviously not authorise the construction of the memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens ; such authorisation must come via the planning process . It is through the submission of a new planning application to Westminster City Council — it is my understanding that it must be a new permission , given the various policy changes that have happened in the five years since the initial application was submitted — that the appropriateness of the preferred site for the scheme will be tested again , and the arguments for and against any development revisited . In the event that the new application were to be called in by the Secretary of State for a decision , the Planning Inspectorate would have to undertake another public inquiry to consider all representations of support or opposition , as well as the relevant local plan , Government policy and guidance , and any other matters that it judges to be material to the case , in order to make a recommendation . We do not believe that this Bill should be used to reopen the final site decision and hinder the ability of the promoter to submit a new planning application to Westminster City Council for consideration , which would be the effect of new clause 2 . For that reason , we would not support it if it were pressed to a vote . The scrutiny provided for by the planning process will likewise apply to the precise plans that will be submitted to the local authority , and to any specific conditions that might be required , including those touched on by amendments 3 and 5 — namely , the footprint of the memorial and learning centre , and their impact on other memorials in the gardens . We therefore do not believe that either amendment is necessary . The planning process will necessarily have to consider security arrangements . The Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee ’s report was right to raise site security as a concern , and there is no question but that security measures need to be re - examined in the light of how the threat picture has changed since the previous planning application was considered five years ago . However , we do not believe that new clause 1 , which stands in the name of the hon . Member for Carlisle , is either appropriate or necessary . First , we have concerns about the implications of putting details of sensitive security measures relating to the site in the public domain and specifying them in regulations , as new clause 1 proposes — a concern echoed by the Planning Inspectorate in its April 2021 report . Secondly , we fear that the effect of new clause 1 would be to duplicate processes that have been , and will be , undertaken by the local authority , or by the Planning Inspectorate in the event that the application were to be called in . For these reasons , we will not be able to support new clause 1 if it is pressed to a Division . There are two sides to this issue , one of which people will accept that the hon . Gentleman is speaking about sensibly : we do not make all details about security available to the public . The second is whether the necessary security arrangements will inhibit the use of the park by local residents , children and others . The Government continually give an assurance that that will not be interrupted , but everybody believes that it will be . That is why it is important to debate and , if necessary , vote on new clause 1 . I hope the hon . Gentleman will agree with us that the impact on the use of the park is the thing that matters for the purpose of this Bill . I thank the Father of the House for his intervention . I certainly agree that that is one of many considerations that need to be taken into account when determining the application , but many of the contributions to this debate have raised matters that engage planning considerations , and this Bill does not engage planning considerations , even though it will affect the ability to submit a planning application in future . However , those are matters that should be rightly dealt with by the local authority , and by the Planning Inspectorate if the application were to be called in by the Secretary of State . I turn lastly to those amendments that concern expenditure relating to the memorial and centre as authorised by clause 1 of the Bill . The Select Committee is right to highlight that the true cost of the project has not been established and to emphasise the need to consider the appropriate use of public money when progressing it . Concerns about expenditure have also been highlighted by the National Audit Office , which has made it clear that there is a risk that the contingency is not enough to cover further cost increases . Perhaps most worryingly , the Government ’s own Infrastructure and Projects Authority has red - rated this project . In other words , the Government themselves are clear that — I quote here from the definition associated with a red rating — as things stand , “ successful delivery of the project appears to be unachievable ” and that it may , to quote further from that definition , “ need re - scoping and/or its overall viability reassessed . ” While the Opposition would not support the imposition of expenditure caps as proposed by amendment 1 , it is clear to us that the Government need to do more to ensure that the project will deliver value for money and to provide appropriate assurances in that regard , in respect of both capital and recurrent costs . As such , I would welcome a robust assurance from the Minister when he responds that the Government have accurately estimated the cost of the project , will apply proper cost control throughout the construction period and will ensure that running costs are sustainable . Today in this Chamber , we have been united on the welcome return of my hon . Friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , and the House has been united on security measures on pub licensing for the Euros — probably not the most contentious piece of legislation before the House — and now on this Holocaust Memorial Bill . For all the debate that we have had on the Bill , I am grateful to all right hon . and hon . Friends and Members who have contributed to it . We have been discussing how , we have been discussing where and we have been discussing when , but the House has never been discussing why . For reasons more than tellingly amplified by my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , my right hon . and learned Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and others , the why is clear and demonstrable . That is a sad fact , but it is . I am grateful to the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , who speaks for the Opposition , for his support , as I am to the hon . Member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) . I shall reserve my general thanks for the Third Reading debate . Let me turn to the amendments . I urge my right hon . and hon . Friends and Opposition Members to reject any of the amendments that might be pushed to a vote , for reasons the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ventilated extremely well . Let me set out why I think that is the case . I might just pause here , if I may , to remark that I think — I am not necessarily an expert on these matters — that this is probably the last substantive piece of innovative business that this Parliament — this 58th Parliament of the realm — will be discussing . It is an honour for me to be taking part in it on behalf of His Majesty ’s Government , because it allows me to pay fulsome and personal tribute to three right hon . and hon . Friends on my side who will not be seeking re - election to this place . My right hon . Friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , who I did not know before I came here in 2015 , has been a stalwart friend and colleague , and he will be hugely missed across the House , more than he will probably know because he is too modest to even consider that assessment . Likewise , I did not know my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole , but his wit , his humour and his ability to cheer up any situation have warmed many a moment . Again , he will be missed . I save for last , but by no means least , my hon . and darling Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . We have known each other since we were 18 or 19 , and it was the joy of my life to see her join us here at the 2019 election . She spoke today , in possibly her last contribution on the Floor of the House , in the same way that she has spoken from her maiden speech onwards , with knowledge , passion , clarity and certainty on behalf of all her constituents . My three retiring colleagues have served their communities well . They have run the race to the finish , and I hope that they enjoy the next chapter of their lives to the full , whatever it offers them . Education is key to this proposal , to make sure that subsequent generations do not repeat the past . As so many Members , particularly my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole , have noted , that is why the symbolic juxtaposition of the memorial and learning centre and this place is so important . There is an emotional and romantic intertwining of Parliament , freedom and democracy , and how dimmed those lights were during the period of the Holocaust . Many have rightly mentioned security , which is a key issue . I suggest to my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) that the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich is right to say that it would not be sensible or prudent to put into the public domain either the security assessment or , indeed , the remedies for what it throws up . It is slightly analogous to having a burglar alarm installed in one ’s home and posting the deactivation code on social media , so I will resist that amendment . My hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle and others have spoken to a key issue . The security and peace of mind of those who work in the centre , of those who visit the centre , of those who merely walk past and , crucially , as my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster and my right hon . Friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) referenced , of those who just use the park as a park is paramount . The overriding point is that the argument that we can not have the memorial and learning centre in Victoria Tower Gardens because of security fundamentally undermines a key tenet that supports the proposition . Given the issues surrounding both the Holocaust and the fairly fluid and dynamic situation in the middle east , security will always be an issue for such an institution . Security would be an issue were it to be located at the Imperial War Museum , in the middle of Hyde Park or on the third floor of Harrods . Security will always be an issue , but I entirely take the point , which I echo from the Dispatch Box . If security concerns , a fear of the mob and a fear of those who seek to disrupt and intimidate suddenly become the trump card that is used to determine where and how we locate such a facility , the mob will have won and we might as well all pack up and go home now , raising the white flag . That is why I think all of us in this House , and particularly the two Front Benches , although we are absolutely concerned about security , are not prepared to bend the knee to bullies , thugs and anti - democratic mob rule . I doubt the Minister intends to be the first to accuse me of waving a white flag on anything . I put it to him that the Government said that the use of the park would not be interfered with by the proposal . Were there to be just a memorial there , that might be true , but the proposals are for a memorial and a learning centre that will try to bring in half a million people a year , when we know now there are greater threats — we have had the parliamentary bookshop barricaded , and , as I say , the memorial in Hyde Park covered over . Can Government say that , with the present plans , the use of the park will not be interfered with ? Where is their assessment ? Who knows about it , and is it true ? Let me say to my hon . Friend that there is no reason for use of the park to be disrupted . I am afraid that he slightly undermined his argument , because he referred to the memorial at Hyde Park having to be secured . We have had in the past to secure the statue of Sir Winston Churchill , and to safeguard the security of the Cenotaph . There were no learning centres attached to them — they stand merely as memorials . My hon . Friend said that he thought the memorial would not come under attack — for want of a better phrase — or require security measures , and that the risk was only because the learning centre was attached to it . I do not agree . I do not have a crystal ball , but the whole security strategy will be tried and tested for every single scenario , in the same way as it is in any plan for something with public use ; of course it will be , and that is right . It would respond to any scenario thrown up . I would love to be able to give a guarantee that unfettered access will be given to the park 24/7 , 365 days a year , but if , in the middle of some heavy protest or something , it is the advice of the police that it be closed in the same way as they might close a road , a shop or a facility , I suggest that it would be folly to ignore that advice . Where we are sitting is an armed fortress — we can not go anywhere without seeing policemen with sub - machine guns . This park has always been completely open . There is absolutely no security . Every gate is completely open ; there are no security guards and no wardens . On behalf of the local community , I ask the Government to assure the public that this park will remain completely open as it always has done , and that they will be able to wander in and out of this green space . My right hon . Friend raises a valid point . That is absolutely at the kernel of the plans on which this vision rests . It is , of course , a planning matter , and I am not the Minister responsible for the planning process . It is a planning matter to be looked at . I think I have said all I can say on that . I would like to correct one or two things . There was a review of alternative sites , and the comparisons were published . The Imperial War Museum was included in that analysis process . The square footage of the development represents just 7.58 % of the overall surface area of the park ; the park is 18,848 square metres , while the development is 1,492 square metres , which includes the memorial . Issues relating to air quality , traffic management , changes in policy and water table , among others , are in the purview of the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . Friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) . It is worthwhile quoting , if I may , an extract from the inspector ’s report . As we know from cases in our own constituencies , the inspectorate is independent of Government . The inspector said that “ the development of the UKHMLC proposals since the publication of the HMC ’s report ” has been “ very thorough . This has involved site selection , a public architectural competition , and after initial selection , a very detailed preparation of the proposals and their presentation , ” with formal public consideration by Westminster City Council and “ ultimately the more detailed evidence presented before the Inquiry . ” I concur with my right hon . and learned Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) that to describe the process as flimsy , or say that Government and others seek to railroad a proposal through within five or 10 minutes of the idea being in somebody ’s mind , stretches the definition — On that point , will the Minister give way ? Will my hon . Friend allow to make this important point , knowing the seriousness with which he takes the Buxton memorial ? I do not want to stray too far into the planning issues , but he will know that the Buxton memorial is listed . As a result of being a listed structure , it is a material planning consideration when any new proposal to set something alongside it is taken into consideration . The design and the layout are entirely set out to ensure that the memorial is subservient to the Buxton memorial , given both its heritage and listed status . I do not dispute what the Minister has just said , but previously he quoted the planning inspector . The inspector did not see the comparison between the top three sites recommended by the consultants or the light - bulb moment when someone involved wrote to a member of the Government saying , “ Have you thought about Victoria Tower Gardens for the memorial ? ” , not for the learning centre as well . The inspector did not see that , I have not seen it and the Minister has not seen it — it did not happen . The planning inspector did the work that statute places upon them , to allow them to make a clear recommendation back to Government on how this application should be determined . The inspector saw all documentation that was germane to that appeal process and , of course , could have called for additional documentation if they so wished . I say gently and respectfully to my hon . Friend the Father of the House that I appreciate he does not like the outcome of the process and that he never will , but trying to cast a whole variety of assertions about how we arrived at the outcome , using questions about procedure and process , is not particularly helpful on an issue that clearly commands the support of the majority of the House . My advice to the House would be to tilt at windmills where they exist , of course , but where they do not exist , do not seek to create them . I reiterate what I said in response to the invention by my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . Setting aside the relevant section of the 1900 Act is necessary to bring forward , in land use and planning terms , the proposal that will eventually be before us . It does not — let me say that again , it does not — establish a precedent for any public body or Government Department , nor does it create a precedent that can be relied upon in law , at judicial review or elsewhere , for private sector developers or joint venture partners with the public sector to base their argument on the proposal . They will not be able to say , “ Ah well , this portion of Victoria Tower Gardens was allowed for this purpose , therefore the Government have opened up a Pandora ’s box . ” To mix my analogies , this does not create a Trojan horse either . It is not a Trojan horse bearing a Pandora ’s box . Any application would need to be judged on its merits . I want to make that abundantly clear , because I know that it is an important point for my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . Many questions have been raised around costs , which are not necessarily an issue for this Bill per se . I will not test the patience of the House by saying that the public sector is tried and tested and reliable , with its letters of contract and contract managers , but everything seems to overrun . I say politely to the House that , of course , costs have gone up over the past nine years , since this idea was first mooted . And , of course , costs will go up still further the longer that we delay . May I make two philosophical points , Sir Roger ? First , whoever is monitoring the delivery and the budget management on this will , with due and proper cognisance to the public finances , be as resolute as they can be to ensure that proper contractual obligations are followed and that budgets are met and not exceeded . One would expect to see a contingency on something such as this , and , indeed , those costs will ebb and flow as the cost of materials rise and fall , and the cost of labour changes and the like . Does the Minister not share my concerns about costs ? It was £ 50 million in 2015 . It is now estimated at £ 138 million . He has already said that the cost is likely to go up even further . Are we really writing a blank cheque for this scheme ? My hon . Friend is right , and I will thank him properly on Third Reading , but may I just put on record at Committee stage my thanks to him for the work that he did chairing the Select Committee that looked into all of this ? It did a thorough piece of work and I am hugely grateful to him and to colleagues who gave up so much of their time . Yes , costs have gone up . I say this as somebody who has spent some considerable time looking at development costs in the private sector . Sometimes we can look at things in the public sector and say , “ How on earth have they arrived at this particular figure ? ” But the National Audit Office , the Public Accounts Committee and others will keep a very clear view on that , and they are right to do so . I say this to my hon . Friend : we want to commemorate and memorialise a horrible period in our world history , and ensure that education can be provided so that the mistakes of the past are hopefully not repeated in the future . I do not make this point to be flippant , but what cost can be put on that , given the scale and the seriousness of the task that we have in front of us ? My hon . Friend will clearly be aware that when the original proposals were put forward back in 2015 - 16 , the design of the memorial and the education and learning centre had not been considered . Therefore the budget that was set then , before the design work was done , was clearly going to be inadequate for the type of facility that we are talking about . Given that we are in those circumstances , he is right that we will need to take a clear position on keeping to costs and keeping to the contract prices . Equally , there is the provision of private sector investment , to which my hon . Friend will no doubt refer . Does he agree with me that , in all these developments , until such time as spades go in the ground , investors are very unlikely to make contributions until they see something really happening . In broad terms , my hon . Friend is absolutely right in the way that he sets out how these things will work . I am grateful to him for making his point in the way that he did . Reference was made to some astronomical sum of money that has already been spent . I think I heard the figure £ 40 million . A total of £ 18 million has already been spent . I did not recognise the £ 40 million figure when it was uttered by , I think , my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West , so I checked with my officials . Nobody in the Department recognises that figure . He may want to write to me with the details , but it is not a figure that we recognise . My hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster made an important point about the setting and environment . Others spoke of the need to have a quiet time to reflect , having visited the education centre . Different people will be moved and touched by what they see , hear and read in very different ways . There is a wonderful and compellingly attractive synergy to having the education centre and the memorial juxtaposed . My hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole made the point that having the memorial adjacent to Parliament , making that linkage to democracy , is key . Having it in a space where there are trees and plants , and the river close by , so that people can come out of the education facility , see the memorial , and have time to pause , reflect , consider , pray , or just hold hands , hug or whatever people may want to do to express solidarity with each other , is also key . The Minister makes an important point about how important it is to be able to have a moment of reflection . As I said , when I visited the Holocaust galleries at the Imperial War Museum , I personally came out of the museum feeling that I needed somewhere to sit and reflect . Surely that is one reason why , as I and others have advocated , the Imperial War Museum is the right place for this memorial . Let me say this to my hon . Friend : before coming to this place , I heard in my professional life — I have also heard this in my political life , as I am sure many of us have—“Do you know what , I think this is a fantastic idea . Gosh , I think it ’s good , and I know an absolutely marvellous site , two and a half miles away from where you want to develop it . It would be so much better there . My goodness me , it would stand out absolutely beautifully , but do n’t do it here . Do n’t do it in my backyard . ” It is my hon . Friend ’s backyard , given that this is her constituency . As I said earlier , there was a comparison of sites , and Victoria Tower Gardens was alighted upon . It is as close as one can get it to the heart of our democratic function . My hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West said something that I thought was uncharacteristically Tory . I wish my right hon . Friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) had been in his place . I think he would have leapt to his feet , as much as anybody of his age can leap to their feet . Will the Minister give way ? Let me finish this point , and then of course I will . My hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West dismissed in some Cromwellian way — I say this slightly tongue in cheek — the fact that the first bit of our parliamentary democracy that visitors would see is the House of peers , as if it were in some way a second - tier part of our bicameral system . Hear , hear ! We will have no heckling from the SNP , thank you very much . It is where the throne sits . It is where the power of this place emanates from . Parliament and the Crown are interlinked . rose — rose — I am going to give way to a Tory . On a point of order , Sir Roger . There are only two minutes left , and I had hoped to wind up the debate . I just wanted to point out that I was listening to my hon . Friend the Member for Worthing West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) carefully , and thought that he made an absolutely brilliant speech . I would have thanked my right hon . Friend for that intervention , but now I do not think that I will . My apologies — I thought that I had until six minutes past 7 to conclude , when I thought the Father of the House was due to wind up . In that case , I draw my remarks to a close by urging right hon . and hon . colleagues to oppose the amendments , to move this important proposal through , to provide a suitable memorial and education centre , not to give way to the mob , and to stand up for the very best of what it means to be a British democrat . If the figure spent already is £ 18 million and not £ 40 million , I accept that from the Minister , but I wonder whether it is actually higher than that . If people say that it is only 7.5 % of the park gardens that will be used , it is 27 % or more of the green space ; those who use the 7.5 % figure should revise that and ask who is giving them that advice . If people say that those who want to protect the gardens are in some way giving way to vandals , we are not . If people want to put things right , the Government should compare the present proposal with the best alternatives from the consultants and then have a proper consultation on the alternatives before the planning process starts again . I thank the Opposition spokesman , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) for saying that there should be a new planning application to the local authority ; we will all agree with that . Question put and negatived . Three hours having elapsed since the commencement of proceedings , the proceedings were interrupted ( Programme Order , this day ) . The Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be concluded at that time ( Standing Order No . 83D ) . Clause 1 ordered to stand part of the Bill . Clauses 2 and 3 ordered to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of security arrangements “ ( 1 ) The Secretary of State must , prior to the commencement of construction of a Holocaust memorial or learning centre — ( a ) carry out a review of proposed security arrangements for the proposed Holocaust memorial or learning centre ; ( b ) lay before Parliament a report on the outcome and findings of the review of the proposed security arrangements ; ( c ) by regulations , specify the security arrangements which are to be implemented for the proposed Holocaust memorial or learning centre . ( 2 ) Regulations made under subsection ( 1)(c ) are subject to the affirmative procedure . ”—(John Stevenson . ) Brought up . Question put , That the clause be added to the Bill . Peter Bottomley Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Richard Graham Bernard Jenkin Karl McCartney Lia Nici Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Henry Smith John Stevenson Charles Walker Nickie Aiken Edward Leigh Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Tracey Crouch Gareth Davies James Davies Mims Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt James Morris Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil O'Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Will Quince Nicola Richards Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul Scully Bob Seely Alok Sharma David Simmonds Greg Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson The Committee divided : Ayes 11 , Noes 182 . Question accordingly negatived . The Deputy Speaker resumed the Chair . Bill reported , without amendment ( Standing Order No . 83D(6 ) ) . Bill , not amended in the Committee , considered . Third Reading I beg to move , That the Bill be now read the Third time . Mr Deputy Speaker , may I begin by thanking you and your fellow Deputy Speakers for chairing proceedings in Committee so expeditiously ? I thank all right hon . and hon . Members , on both sides , who took part in the debate , which was informed , sensible , probing and proper . I thank the officials , who have worked diligently and with the efficiency and professionalism that anybody who has been a Minister now comes to expect , almost as a matter of course , from our wonderful civil service . I thank Paul Downie , Helen Jones , Ruby Hatton , Emma Morrison and Sally Sealey for all that they have done during the progress of the Bill . I particularly want to thank my private secretary , James Selby , for all that he has done to ensure that everything was in order . It would be remiss of me not to thank Ed Balls and my noble Friend Lord Pickles for all that they have done to progress this idea . I also thank those hon . Members who so willingly and diligently gave of their time on the Bill Select Committee : my hon . Friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , who chaired it with his customary wit and professionalism , the hon . Members for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) and for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) , and my hon . Friends the Members for Guildford ( Angela Richardson ) and for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) . The House owes them all a debt of gratitude , as do the Government , and I repay that debt wholeheartedly and fully now . I also thank those who gave of their time in preparing their case . Those opposed to the proposal , either in whole or in part , gave of their time to appear before the Committee , and in so doing they exercised the right to be heard without fear or favour and to be cross - examined fairly by elected democrats in this place . That is actually what all of this is about : the triumph of good over evil ; of light over darkness . The challenge , real as it was , that the cloud of Nazism cast over the continent of Europe , and that the horror the Nazis unleashed against people merely because of their faith and belief , came so close to extinguishing those precious lights of religious freedom and democratic institutions , as well as freedom of speech , freedom of association and freedom of thought . The Holocaust memorial will stand as a testimony to that ; a visible beacon to specific visitors as well as to casual passers - by . It will provide a time to pause and reflect , and to redouble our efforts and make again the solemn and precious vow : “ Never again . ” Those who make a visit to the education centre — hopefully many of our young , but not exclusively our young — will come away with a renewed determination to learn from the horrors of the past , to understand in some clearer detail the depths that humankind can plummet against members of its own species , to make again that eternal vow of never again , and to learn from the mistakes of the past . The synergy of the education centre and the memorial , juxtaposed to each other and adjacent to this sovereign democratic Parliament , is so important , as is the setting in a busy part of the city of Westminster , with bustling traffic , pedestrians and , as my hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and others said in Committee , families and children enjoying the open space provided in central London that is Victoria Tower Gardens . What could be more uplifting than the laughter of children at play ? What could be a happier sight than families enjoying leisure time together ? We will reflect , when we think of those scenes , of the families ripped apart by the Holocaust , of the children torn from their parents , and the husbands separated from wives , to go into a cattle truck of darkness , not knowing where one was going , why one was going or what in the name of all that is holy was happening , merely because of a sign of faith and a belief in Yahweh . I hope that all those who visit will , as they see children at play and happy families , think of how many families were destroyed . The imperative to deliver this memorial remains ever pressing . Those who either were part of the Kindertransport — I think of Lord Dubs and others — or are of the generation who have contemporary memory , even from a very young age , are ageing and dying . It is so important , even with a small and dwindling cohort of the real - time survivors , that they can draw spiritual comfort from the fact that we do not forget , that we do remember and that we do recommit not to repeat . I am grateful and the Government are grateful to the Opposition for their support during the Bill ’s progress . The commitment was first made by the then Prime Minister , my noble Friend Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton way back in January 2015 . The Bill has ebbed and flowed , but throughout those ebbs and flows , it has continued to enjoy cross - party support and support from the range of political parties of this place and elsewhere , different parts of civic society and a huge variety of our faith communities . We acknowledge the concerns of those who think there is a better site and those who are concerned about the size of Victoria Tower Gardens , the impact the development may have on its character , or the precedent the Bill may create . I hope that I addressed those points as best I could in Committee , cognisant of the fact , which it is probably worthy of reminding ourselves of and which the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) alluded to in his kind and supportive remarks towards the end of Committee , that while many of the concerns were totally legitimate , they were germane to the planning process , not the progress of the Bill . I hope the House knows me well enough to take as gospel when I say that the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . Friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) and I have meticulously safeguarded clear lines of demarcation between progressing this Bill through the House of Commons and issues related to planning . I can say , hand on heart , that my hon . Friend and I have not exchanged a single word about the Bill , the site or the proposal . It is important to stress on Third Reading that we have clearly understood and respected throughout probity , understanding the difference in the various powers and the quasi - judicial function that sits behind the planning process . As this is a hybrid Bill , the Select Committee heard from petitioners against the Bill and raised questions in its report about how Victoria Tower Gardens were chosen . We have discussed the cost of the project , and we take seriously the security implications . I thank the Committee for its report , and I hope that it welcomed my response , which was published recently . The security of our fellow citizens is one of our clear and primary duties . I have no doubt that there will be challenges in that arena , and dynamic solutions will be needed . For absolute certainty , I echo the point made so ably by my hon . Friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) : the day must not come when the decisions of where and how we site our memorials is dictated to , the whip hand is given and the fiat is acknowledged from a group of unaccountable people who believe that those who shout loudest , waive the most banners , cause the most disruption and generate the most vandalism will prevail , because the state has neither the nerve nor the spine to stand up to them to say what we think is right , that we cherish it and that we will support it with all that we can . I make that commitment to the House and to the country today . We will not be , nor should we be , dictated to by those who are fundamentally anti - democratic , who will not take no for an answer and will accept only victory and never defeat . We say to them , “ Not here , not now , not ever . ” To give ground on that would fundamentally change this place and our democratic functions . As we approach that most important of democratic functions on 4 July , it is a time for all of us who honourably wear the badge of democrats to stand up for our shared values , irrespective of political difference . [ Interruption . ] I think the hon . Lady for Bath wishes to intervene . I would like to make a speech . In that case , I will not let the hon . Lady intervene . [ Interruption . ] Who was that ? My hon . Friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) chunters from the Back Benches up until the end . I think that we have lost sight of the fact that the proposals were considered at a detailed and independent planning inquiry . Set against the thorough work of the Committee and the time that has elapsed since 2015 when the proposal was first given voice , that fundamentally undermines the accusation of railroading by Government . The planning inspector considered a great deal of the evidence and looked in significant detail at matters such as the impact on Victoria Tower Gardens and , crucially , the Buxton Memorial and other existing memorials . The inspector concluded that any harms to heritage assets were outweighed the public benefits of the scheme . The design and the layout will take the right approach to respecting those existing monuments , particularly those which are listed . As I have said , the planning process is the correct way to consider these issues . It is not necessary — indeed , it would not be right — for debates on the Bill to become concerned with the minutia of planning matters . Let me say again , on Third Reading , that the Bill deals with a very narrow point in the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 . That was the only issue that was found to be an obstacle to construction in Victoria Tower Gardens . Let me say again for the convenience of the House and for the certainty of those outside , the Bill creates no precedent in its alleviation of the clause within that Act . It sets no precedent elsewhere in Victoria Tower Gardens , or elsewhere . We regret to recall that antisemitism is at record levels . The devastatingly clear speech delivered by the Secretary of State for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . Friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , just yesterday put that into very clear view . A great grandson of the survivor Lily Ebert has said : “ When we no longer have survivors like Lily among us , this memorial will help to ensure that their experiences are never forgotten . We can create the next generation of witnesses . ” We must do that to ensure that the pernicious weed of antisemitism can be grubbed up and that the stain that it is on some sections of society is removed . Let me conclude as I began , by expressing my thanks to Members for their contribution on Second Reading , in Committee and on Third Reading . I am grateful to the Clerks of the House , as always , for supporting the smooth running of the Bill , and to the Holocaust memorial team in my Department for their policy and Bill management support . I look forward to watching the Bill ’s progress in the other place from this place . I commend it to the House . I start by thanking the Clerks , the House staff and Library specialists for facilitating our debates on the Bill . I also put on record our thanks to all Members who have contributed to our proceedings at all stages . In particular , I offer our sincere thanks to those who served on the Select Committee for their work in overseeing the Bill ’s petitioning period , and all those who made petitions against the Bill . Lastly , I put on record once again the thanks of Labour Members to all those who have been involved in advancing the proposed national memorial to the Holocaust , and Holocaust education more generally over recent years . There are far too many to name individually , but I must make specific reference to the past and present members of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , including the right hon . Ed Balls and the right hon . Lord Eric Pickles , the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , the Holocaust Educational Trust and , of course , all the survivors of the Shoah who have not only campaigned for Holocaust education , but personally championed the project , including many who are sadly no longer with us . Whatever differences might exist about precisely how we do so , we are united as a House in our commitment to remembering and learning from the Holocaust . It is imperative that we continue to educate future generations about what happened , both as a mark of respect to those who were murdered and those who survived , and also as a warning about what happens when antisemitism , prejudice and hatred are allowed to flourish unchecked . A national memorial for remembrance of the Holocaust will stand as a permanent reminder of the horrors of the past , and the need for a democratic citizenry to remain ever vigilant and willing to act when the values that underpin a free and tolerant society are undermined or threatened , as well as encouraging reflection on the implications of those horrors for British government and society . As was rightly mentioned by several hon . Members in Committee , in the nine years since the idea was first mooted , the case for such a monument and institution has become acute . Not only does anti - Jewish hatred continue to grow , but the remaining survivors of the Holocaust become ever fewer and ever frailer . We owe it to those who remain with us , and to future generations , to complete this vitally important project . With that concern at the forefront of our minds , we wholeheartedly support the passage of the Bill this evening . I call the Father of the House . I know that the hon . Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) will need to get in , so I will try not to say as much as I had intended to . I suggest that those who read this Third Reading debate , particularly those in another place who may be considering the Bill after the election , look at early - day motion 711 , which spells out a number of the issues . I hope they will look with kindness on what has been said by my right hon . Friend the Minister , although there are other interpretations in respect of a number of issues . Those who think there should be a memorial do not necessarily think the learning centre should be with it , while those who think there should be a learning centre do not think it should be squashed into what I described as a box under a memorial . There are many who think that the memorial could be better than the design that was not chosen in Ottawa , and I think it is a continuing embarrassment to the Government that the name of the person who was mentioned 13 times in the announcement of the winning design , Sir David Adjaye , is one that Ministers can not say today . I refer Members to the transcript of the Select Committee hearing on 5 February . Let me quote from paragraph 25 : “ Many people will know Sir David Adjaye ’s statement that ‘ disrupting the pleasure of being in a park is key to the thinking ’ , but fewer people have heard the first part of that quote which is , ‘ We have the opportunity to activate the entire site ’ ” , or what he had said previously : “ ‘ There has been a kind of picture painted that this is a public garden ... It moves from being just a kind of public park to being much more ceremonial , much more kind of ordered ’ . ” I could also quote from paragraphs 26 and 27 , but I will not do so . However , I will quote from paragraph 58 , which states that if the learning centre is built , “ the playground is actually going to be reduced by 370 square metres . That is by 31 % , not about 15 % as noticed and remarked on by the inspector , or 10 % in the figures given by Baroness Scott ” — the Minister in the House of Lords — “ in her 2023 parliamentary answer , or even zero reduction , as stated by David Adjaye , misleadingly ” — I would say “ mistakenly ” — “ to the inquiry . A 31 % loss can not possibly be said to be an enhancement or a reconfiguration of the playground . That is what Chris Pincher , then briefly Minister of State , said in support of his 2021 planning permission approval for this project . ” I refer Members to a book by Dorian Gerhold , “ Victoria Tower Gardens ” , which is subtitled “ The prehistory , creation and planned destruction of a London park ” . What we are talking about here is not particularly the memorial — having a good memorial would be better than having a bad memorial — but Victoria Tower Gardens . We have this legislation because the Government did not care about the 1900 Act . I say to the Government that better faith would have been acknowledging that the Bill they were putting forward was hybrid , without resisting that fact to the examiners in both Houses . We now pass the Bill on the House of Lords , where I believe that people will look again , with fresh eyes and fair eyes , at how we can commemorate those who died but do the best we can to educate people so that what happened is less likely to happen again . The idea that a particular memorial will stop it happening would be laughed at by those who are commemorating and mourning the Yazidi genocide 10 years ago , the Rwandan genocide , and one or two others I could name in other parts of the world . We have to do what is right . Let me end by saying this . My first cousin once removed was one of the Westminster Medical School students who went into Bergen - Belsen and were able to saves the lives of about half the people who were existing there at the time . I have worked with people Holocaust survivors , and I believe that we do best by doing what is right in a good way , which is why I welcome what the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) said about the normal planning process . As my right hon . Friend the Minister said and as Christopher Katkowski has said , the normal planning process will happen . Let us look forward — if the Bill is carried over — to a planning process in which an application is made to the local authority , and the local authority makes the decision . If the authority approves the application , there is no problem ; if it does not , the Minister can call it in , but the Minister should not call it in before Westminster City Council has had a chance to see any revised proposals that the Government can now put forward . I am extremely grateful for the opportunity to contribute to the debate , and I am grateful to the Father of the House for allowing me enough time to say what I want to say . I hope that my colleagues will bear with me . My mother ’s family were victims of the Nazi regime ’s persecution . My uncle was imprisoned in Dachau in 1936 , but got out with the help of Scandinavian friends . All my mother ’s half - brothers and sisters left Germany and , except for one , never returned . The persecution hung over my mother ’s childhood every day and was never forgotten for the rest of her life . I was born much later , but I have always had a sense of shame and horror about the atrocities committed by the German state during the Holocaust . I owe it to the millions of Jews who perished at the hands of the country in which I was born to convert this shame into political activity . I will always stand up and make sure that such unspeakable cruelty does not happen again . The education I received in Germany made sure that I never forgot the part that my birth country played in the suffering of millions . Although Britain has a different legacy , it remains important that future generations in this country are as just as informed and educated . One of the most significant lessons that we can learn is about ensuring that we identify the initial indicators of injustice . We must remember that the atrocities of the Holocaust began by creating communities of division and hatred . We must prevent the same prejudice from rearing its head today . There is no place more suitable for the memorial than Victoria Tower Gardens . Having the memorial right at the heart of our democracy will serve as a constant reminder of the deadly consequences of fascism and racism . Members of Parliament and the public must be able to feel this history to ensure that the legacy of the Holocaust does not end up in the periphery of our minds . The rise in antisemitism in the UK is a reminder that we can not be complacent when it comes to education on the world ’s oldest hatred . Holocaust denial is becoming more prolific , with conspiracies spread on social media , and we must confront this . At a time when the Holocaust moves from living memory into history , it is more important than ever that we protect the facts of the Holocaust by creating a learning centre alongside the memorial . As Holocaust survivors become ever fewer and frailer , it is vital that progress is made rapidly . Work has not started , despite the memorial being promised eight years ago . Our beloved survivors are in their 80s and 90s , and will not be with us forever . We have to preserve their testimonies and the memories of their families for future generations . I recently met Susan Pollack MBE , a 93 - year - old Holocaust survivor , to mark Yom HaShoah . Susan is an avid champion of Holocaust education , and still speaks in schools across the country to share her testimony . She is especially supportive of the campaign to build a Holocaust memorial and education centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , and we owe it to her and survivors like her to make sure that she can see it open while she is with us . Sadly , the building of the memorial and learning centre has been beset by delays . It is important to make sure that local voices are heard , but we politicians must always consider a balance of interests . If we sincerely believe in the importance of this project , we must get on with it now and not wait any longer . Sir Ben Helfgott MBE , who passed away last year , will never be able visit the site . He had looked forward to taking his family to the memorial and education centre . As Sir Ben said before his passing , the memorial will “ ensure that the memory of the six million Jewish men , women and children who were murdered by the Nazis and their collaborators are never forgotten , and that my story , and the story of my fellow survivors can continue to be told forever . ” I listened very carefully to the speech by my right hon . and learned Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) . I am not a Jew and I do not represent a constituency with a big Jewish community , and I note his point about the small number of Jews in our country . However , I like to know my history , and I know that my constituents across Winchester and Chandler ’s Ford do too , so I have followed the progress of this Bill closely . A couple of years ago , the then Prince of Wales came to Winchester to unveil the statue of Licoricia , a famous Jewish figure from Winchester , and her son Asher . It stands in Jewry Street in the heart of our city as a permanent reminder of what happened . To know it , and therefore to know the memorial we are discussing today , which I support , is to never forget . I was not intending to speak today , but I have been moved by some of the speeches that I have heard , including the last one , and I think that to have this memorial and this centre is to never forget . Credit to Lord Cameron for starting this . I would had never have been in this House without said Lord Cameron . I have listened to the various other speeches — including from the Father of the House , whom I respect greatly — and I am tempted to say that this site is not perfect . But I also hear what the Minister says about the synergy of this memorial being adjacent to this amazing Palace of Westminster , and I think that that is the point . I agree with the Father of the House on the planning procedure , which obviously must be done properly , and I know that it will be . I support this Bill and I have followed it closely as it is gone through the House . Does my hon . Friend accept that there are some of us who feel absolutely as passionately as he and every other colleague in this House about what happened in the Holocaust but who do not believe that this is necessarily the best place to site such a memorial ? Does he agree that it is now for their lordships to look really closely at whether the points made by the Father of the House and others of us who supported new clause 1 should be looked at carefully before any final decision is reached ? Yes . The one thing I know from my 14 years and counting in this House is that their lordships look at everything very carefully . I hear my hon . Friend , but I am not sure that I do agree , for the reasons that I have just given . As the Minister said , the synergy of this memorial being adjacent to this Palace of Westminster is the point , so if not here , where ? This is a good place for it , and that is why I support it . There is another reason why I support it . I always think that in life you can never quote C. S. Lewis too often , and my favourite quote from C. S. Lewis is : “ You ca n’t go back and change the beginning but you can start where you are and change the ending . ” Clearly we can not go back and change what happened , but we can change the ending and make sure that people remember where we have come from . As this could well be my final contribution in this place , I want to say thank you to the people of Winchester and Chandler ’s Ford for giving me four in a row ; thank you to my team , now and past ; and of course thank you to Susie , my wife , and Emily and William , my children , for allowing me to do this . I will close by saying that I have always tried to hold in my heart in this place something that I was taught by my grandfather and then by my parents : it is nice to be important — and there are many people in this place who are far more important than me — but I think it is far more important to be nice . I am glad to be able to contribute today on behalf of my party on this important Bill , albeit that the Bill seeks specifically to build in London , far from my own constituency and far from Scotland . It is also , significantly , a planning - related issue . For both those reasons , I would usually rule myself out of contributing . However , the principle of having this Holocaust memorial matters . The opportunity to visit the memorial and the importance of diverse voices in support and the broadest range of testimony being shared are relevant to us all . It is fair to say that this place has taken its time to get where we are now . My overwhelming feeling is that as the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust is within sight , it is time to do this . It is time to get on with it . I appreciate that there are some differences on the location . I understand and sympathise with the various concerns and positions , but it seems to me that we can either keep going round in circles or agree that it is time to move forward . I favour the latter approach . We just need to do it . I was fortunate recently to hear the Holocaust survivor Susan Pollack speak in this place at a Yom HaShoah event . She is a remarkable woman . I have also been fortunate to hear other survivors , including constituents , whose testimonies made such a marked difference to the lives of others . That privilege of hearing directly from Holocaust survivors is , of course , now becoming less and less possible , so we need to find ways to preserve their testimonies and to make sure that their stories are captured and told to those who come after us . We also know that genocides did not end with the Holocaust , which in itself should be a motivator to move forward with this Bill . That is why I believe the plan to make sure there is an education centre , as well as a memorial , is so vital . I am in awe of the people , including survivors and their families , who work so hard to educate others . I want to mention my constituent Geraldine Shenkin , whose lovely mum , Marianne Grant , was held in no fewer than three concentration camps but none the less showed such courage . She made such striking and beautiful art , which will convey the horror of the Holocaust for generations to come . I am very fortunate to have been given a copy of the book of Marianne ’s art , which is hugely evocative and an important part of the history of the Holocaust , the like of which we should see on display as widely as possible to ensure there is a clear understanding of the realities of what happened . I am also in awe of my constituent Steven Anson , whose father Martin Anson ’s story is told so powerfully through the Gathering the Voices initiative , and my late constituents Ingrid and Henry Wuga , both arrivals from the Kindertransport who made such an impact on my local community and across Scotland in their retirement as they dedicated themselves to speaking to our young people about their experiences . They changed countless lives . Their testimony , their telling the truth of the Holocaust , has impacted thousands of people . We lost Henry Wuga recently , shortly after his 100th birthday . It would be a great shame if the wisdom and dedication he demonstrated was not part of the new memorial and education centre , and I sincerely hope that his voice and the others I mentioned are among the many Scottish voices that this memorial would benefit from amplifying . I know I am very lucky to have had these conversations , to have heard these stories and to have visited places including Yad Vashem , and I appreciate the impact it has had on me . But what about those who have not had that opportunity ? What about those in future years who will need to know the reality of the Holocaust , but who will no longer have those brave survivors to hear from ? Both the memorial and the education centre are vital in that regard . We are also fortunate to have organisations and projects , including the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust led by the remarkable Olivia Marks - Woldman — my constituent Kirsty Robson does important work there , too — and the Holocaust Educational Trust , where Karen Pollock works tirelessly . There is also Gathering the Voices and Vision Schools Scotland . I could go on about the ethos that shines through all their work . The new memorial and education centre will be in a position to deliver and learn from that great work . They will be able to contribute to each other ’s work , which is increasingly important in an increasingly polarised world — I spoke earlier about the shocking spike in antisemitic incidents — and the plans to move things forward are very welcome . All of that is why this Holocaust memorial and education centre needs to be built , and it is why we need to give it the profile and broadest possible support that it merits . It is also why we just need to get on with it . In the short time available , we should remember that the Holocaust represents the darkest hour in human history , when 6 million Jewish people were systematically murdered by the Nazis . Above all else , the thing that impresses me about the survivors is their lack of bitterness . It would be very easy for them to be very bitter and very angry about what happened , but they give their thoughts and their education freely and without bitterness . That is the key point . As the survivors pass away , we must ensure that we capture their testimony so that it is always available . I regret that , when I was at school , we had no education on the Holocaust . Our generation was largely ignorant . The Jewish population of this country largely did not want to talk about what had happened for fear of not being believed . Education is vital . I thank the Minister and the successive Ministers who have taken this Bill through the House to enable us to have a learning centre and memorial . I also thank the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , the Holocaust Educational Trust and all those wonderful bodies that have agitated for this to happen , and who deliver education and learning every single day . On a cross - party basis , the House can bless this Bill as we enable it to get on the statute books ; I am sure the House of Lords will bless it as well . We want to ensure that it becomes a lasting memorial and an education for young people , so that we never forget what happened during the second world war . I congratulate the Minister , my hon . Friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , on his tour de force in taking the Bill through today . In what has not been an easy debate , he has demonstrated his skills in handling colleagues and has done extremely well . I am also grateful for his kind remarks about me and others who are leaving this place this week . In what will be my final contribution after 19 years on these Benches , it is fitting to be able to speak on such a significant topic , reflecting as it does what has happened over the last 79 years , since we were last at war in Europe . The horrors that would be commemorated by this memorial — Order . I am sorry to have to interrupt the right hon . Gentleman — there will be an opportunity to return to this on the carry - over motion later , if he wishes to do so . I accept the fact that his speech has been interrupted , and that will not count against him if he seeks to catch our eye again . Four hours having elapsed since the commencement of proceedings on the business of the House motion , the debate was interrupted ( Order , this day ) . The Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Question already proposed from the Chair ( Standing Order No . 83E ) , That the Bill be now read the Third time . Question agreed to . Bill accordingly read the Third time and passed . Business of the House With permission , I will make a short business statement . Following the announcement by my right hon . Friend the Prime Minister , I am sure the House will understand that discussions continue on the business ahead of the Dissolution of this Parliament . With that in mind , tomorrow ’s business will include consideration of a business of the House motion , followed by remaining stages of the Finance ( No . 2 ) Bill . The House will then be asked to await any Lords messages . The House will also be asked to agree to sit on Friday 24 May . Subject to the progress of business , Parliament is expected to prorogue on Friday 24 May . I will make a further business statement to update the House tomorrow morning . Before we proceed , the Leader of the House has made it plain that she will make a further business statement tomorrow morning . Of course , I will take a contribution from the Opposition spokesperson , but this is a very narrow statement indeed . I do not expect a business questions session after this . I thank the Leader of the House for that emergency business statement — I think many across the country will thank her too , although I am not sure many on the Government Benches will — that Parliament will be dissolved for a general election . The country has been crying out for change , and this election means that people can finally vote for it . It is a chance to change this chaotic , weak and incompetent Conservative Government , who have crashed our economy , hit working people with sky - high mortgages and left the NHS and public services in crisis . Labour is ready to deliver that change , and change this country for the better . With Parliament prorogued on Friday , can the Leader of the House tell us which Bills will be brought forward for wash - up this week ? There are some Bills that we support that could receive Royal Assent , should the Government choose to do so . With so little time remaining , it seems unlikely that many of their flagship Bills will now become law . What the Leader of the House and her Government seem to be saying today is that the vast majority of the King ’s Speech programme will not be realised , including important issues such as the compensation scheme for victims of the infected blood scandal , committed to just this week . I want to reiterate that Labour stands ready to do whatever is necessary to pass the Victims and Prisoners Bill with these important amendments this week . I look forward to what may be our final business questions tomorrow . As the shadow Leader of the House will know , discussions are ongoing through the usual channels . I thank her for her offer of help on these important Bills . Certainly , we would like our legislative programme to get through and if the Opposition were minded to assist us on those important Bills , I am sure that could be achieved . I will be making a further business statement tomorrow morning . I reassure people who will be affected by , for example , the infected blood issue that we will make that statement , and the sentiments that were expressed at this Dispatch Box earlier this week still stand . I think that all parties want that and other important legislation to get through . The Whips are discussing these matters and I will update the House tomorrow morning . I also look forward to our exchange tomorrow . Mr Brine has indicated that he wishes to raise a question that is probably relevant to a number of Members . I will call Mr Brine , but after that I will call these proceedings to a close on the understanding that a statement will be made tomorrow . Other than providing time for the Tobacco and Vapes Bill — she knows that matters greatly to me and that there is widespread support for it across the House , including from both Front Benches — does the Leader of the House plan to allow time for Members who are retiring from the House to make “ matters to be raised before the Dissolution ” speeches ? I thank my hon . Friend for raising that matter as it will be a concern to many Members on all sides of the House . The usual channels are aware of hon . Members ’ wish to do that and I hope to be able to update the House tomorrow . Business of the House Motion made , and Question put forthwith ( Standing Orders Nos . 15 and 41A ) , That , at this day ’s sitting , ( 1 ) Standing Order No . 41A ( Deferred divisions ) shall not apply to the Motions ( i ) in the name of Julia Lopez , relating to Consumer Protection ; ( ii ) in the name of Andrea Leadsom , relating to Medicines ; and ( iii ) in the name of Secretary Alex Chalk relating to Private International Law ; and ( 2 ) the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt , relating to Business of the House ( Today ) may be proceeded with , though opposed , until any hour and Standing Order No . 41A ( Deferred divisions ) shall not apply.—(Aaron Bell . ) Question agreed to . Business of the House ( Today ) Ordered , That at this day ’s sitting , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceedings on the Motion in the name of Secretary Michael Gove , relating to Holocaust Memorial Bill : Carry - over not later than 90 minutes after the commencement of proceedings on the Motion for this Order ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments selected by the Speaker which may then be moved ; proceedings on that Motion may continue , though opposed , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41A ( Deferred divisions ) shall not apply.—(Aaron Bell . ) Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Carry - over ) Motion made , and Question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 80A(1)(a ) ) , That the following provisions shall apply in respect of the Holocaust Memorial Bill : Suspension at end of this Parliament ( 1 ) If proceedings on the Bill are not completed before the day on which this Session of Parliament ( “ the current Session ” ) ends , further proceedings on the Bill shall be suspended from the day on which the current Session ends until the first Session of the next Parliament ( “ the first Session ” ) . ( 2 ) If a Bill is presented in the first Session in the same terms as those in which the Bill stood when proceedings on it were suspended in the current Session — ( a ) the Bill so presented shall be ordered to be printed and shall be deemed to have been read the first and second time ; ( b ) the Standing Orders and practice of the House applicable to the Bill , so far as complied with or dispensed with in the current Session or in the previous Session of Parliament shall be deemed to have been complied with or ( as the case may be ) dispensed with in the first Session ; ( c ) the Bill shall be dealt with in accordance with — ( i ) paragraph 3 , if the Bill was waiting to be considered when proceedings on it were suspended , ( ii ) paragraph 4 , if the Bill was waiting for third reading when proceedings on it were suspended , or ( iii ) paragraph 5 , if the Bill has been read the third time and sent to the House of Lords . ( 3 ) If this paragraph applies — ( a ) the Bill shall be deemed to have been reported from the Select Committee and from the Committee of the whole House , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for consideration . ( 4 ) If this paragraph applies — ( a ) the Bill shall be deemed to have been reported from the Select Committee and from the Committee of the whole House and to have been considered , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for third reading . ( 5 ) If this paragraph applies , the Bill shall be deemed to have passed through all its stages in this House . Other That these Orders be Standing Orders of the House.—(Simon Hoare . ) Question agreed to . Business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion made , and Question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 118(6 ) ) , Consumer Protection That the draft Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Security Requirements for Relevant Connectable Products ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which were laid before this House on 25 April , be approved.—(Aaron Bell . ) Question agreed to . Motion made , and Question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 118(6 ) ) , Medicines That the draft Human Medicines ( Amendments relating to Registered Dental Hygienists , Registered Dental Therapists and Registered Pharmacy Technicians ) Regulations 2024 , which were laid before this House on 29 April , be approved.—(Aaron Bell . ) Question agreed to . Motion made , and Question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 118(6 ) ) , Private International Law That the draft Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments ( 2019 Hague Convention etc . ) Regulations 2024 , which were laid before this House on 29 April , be approved.—(Aaron Bell . ) Question agreed to . Petition - Transport Infrastructure in Somerset I rise to present a petition about transport infrastructure in Somerset . Some 655 people have signed a similar petition to this , calling for the Department for Transport to urgently help the Langport Transport Group to move forward the project to deliver a new train station in the Somerton and Langport area . The petition states : “ The petitioners therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concerns of the petitioners and take immediate action to progress the project for a new station in Somerton / Langport . ” Following is the full text of the petition : [ The petition of residents of the constituency of Somerton and Frome , Declares that the public transport infrastructure in Somerset is not up to the necessary standard ; further declares that the poor infrastructure limits economic growth , education , employment and leisure opportunities for people living in Somerset ; further notes that Langport Transport Group and Somerset Council have been waiting since July 2022 for a Government response to plans submitted for a new train station for Somerton / Langport ; and further declares that the Department for Transport should urgently help the Group move this forward to deliver a new train station in the Somerton / Langport area . The petitioners therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concerns of the petitioners and take immediate action to progress the project for a new station in Somerton / Langport . And the petitioners remain , etc . ] [ P002994 ] Petition - Blue Badge Holders and Personal Electric Vehicles on Public Land I rise to present a petition on behalf of North Devon resident Ella Wakley , in which she asks the House of Commons to urge the Government to allow blue badge holders with personal electric vehicles , such as e - scooters , to be allowed on public land for accessibility purposes . I have met Ella and her parents in North Devon and in Westminster and have raised her case with multiple Ministers in various Departments . I recognise that this is a multifaceted issue , but I hope that by raising her case directly today , we can start taking steps to adjust regulations for blue badge holders so that they can go through life with freedom and independence , which can often be even more of a challenge in rural areas . Over 1,500 people have signed Ella ’s online petition , and the petitioners “ therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concerns of the petitioners and take immediate action to ensure accessibility for blue badge holders to use personal electric vehicles ” — such as e - scooters — “ on public land . ” Following is the full text of the petition : [ The petition of Ella Wakley , Declares that blue badge holders with personal electric vehicles , such as e - scooters should be allowed on public land for accessibility purposes ; and further that currently disabled people risk being fined and getting penalty points , even though personal electric vehicles are their only mode of independent transport . The petitioners therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concerns of the petitioners and take immediate action to ensure accessibility for blue badge holders to use personal electric vehicles on public land . And the petitioners remain etc [ P002995 ] Funding for Local Councils Motion made , and Question proposed , That this House do now adjourn.—(Aaron Bell . ) I declare an interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I thank the Minister for attending this evening and for his response . I appreciate that it has been a bit of an unusual day , so I will not be imploring him to make all sorts of commitments from the Dispatch Box , given the unusual circumstances in which we find ourselves . I would like to raise some important matters . If I am lucky or privileged enough to be returned to this place by the constituents of North Shropshire , I will continue to campaign on these issues on their behalf . Many hon . Members across the House have raised the issue of the crisis in local government funding in recent months . I wish to highlight some of the specific challenges faced by rural councils , and in particular by my own council of Shropshire , which deals with the area of North Shropshire . Most people ’s experience of government is local , as we know . They drive on the roads every day , so they experience the potholes and the conditions of the roads . They use the waste disposal services , whether that is having their bins collected or taking them to a recycling centre . They might use a swimming pool . They might have a friend , relative or loved one in need of social care , or they might need it themselves . They might have a child in a local authority - maintained school . Therefore , local government is most people ’s experience of government , and it is the backbone of our communities . Since 2016 , councils have seen a £ 5.25 billion real - terms cut in the funding they receive from central Government , and that is driving deep inequality in our communities and impacting on people ’s perception of the value they receive from the tax they pay . Shropshire Council had to find £ 50 million of cuts in the financial year that just ended , and it is saying that it will need to make a further £ 60 million of cuts in the coming year . That is an enormous cut and it will affect everyone in North Shropshire , but it will affect vulnerable people the most , and that is my area of concern . Now why is this ? It is very tempting to stand here and say that Shropshire is Conservative - run , which is why it is in so much trouble , but although I believe that Liberal Democrats would do a better job , the reality is that the council spends around 85 % of its budget on social care . That is more than the average of councils across the country , which spend about two thirds of their budget trying to meet adult and child social care costs . It means that , in Shropshire , for every pound that we give to the council for services , only 15p is spent on other things , whether statutory provisions such as libraries , or other big - ticket items , such as highways , and it really is not enough money . The problem is that the quality of social care is being affected as well . Earlier last year , I met an elderly couple in Ellesmere , who have loved and cared for their disabled daughter all of her lives . When she became ill and went into hospital , they were unable to continue that level of care when she was discharged because of their own health problems , so they needed a more supportive arrangement . The council found a sheltered flat for their daughter . They paid for new carpets and were excited about her having that new arrangement . But just two weeks before she was due to move in , the flat was withdrawn because it was considered to be too expensive , causing a huge amount of trauma and concern about the money that they had invested in the flat . We were able to reverse that decision in that case , but they are far from the only family in that situation . In fact , half a million people in England are desperate for social care . The reality is that Shropshire Council can not outrun the growing demand for social care . It might make the £ 60 million of cuts this year and avoid a section 114 notice this time around , but will it — or indeed any other administration — be able to do that in future ? Given the increasing level of demand , I think that any administration will struggle to achieve that . Every single person in Shropshire has seen , and will see , an increase in their council tax , and what they are getting in return is reduced services . All the while , adult social care need is not being met , as the Public Accounts Committee recently confirmed . I strongly suspect that is because we are trying to fund social care through council tax , which is a regressive , broken tax that goes nowhere near matching the cost of the service that we are trying to deliver with a sensible revenue stream to fund it . I do not think that we will fix the problem unless we totally revisit how we fund social care , and indeed how we collect council tax . It is not just people receiving social care who are feeling the brunt of the cuts ; it is all the services that we expect to receive . Last month , our council announced the closure of two of the five recycling centres in Shropshire , two of which are in my constituency . If either of those close , some of my constituents will have a 45 - minute drive to a recycling centre . I am sure that they will make that drive . We are all dependent on our cars — we do not have great bus services — and I am sure that law - abiding citizens will do their best to get their refuse to a tip that is further away , but North Shropshire is a beautiful rural constituency with miles and miles of remote isolated roads , and it is at high risk from fly - tippers . People are genuinely concerned that the beautiful countryside will be ruined by that criminal activity , and it will cost the council even more to clean it up . We seem to be taking with one hand and spending huge amounts of money with the other , which might not have the desired outcome . There is a similar story on special educational needs and disability . Local authorities obviously have to pay for transport for SEND pupils , and the rationing of that transport is becoming a huge problem for some of my constituents . I was contacted by Shane and Brad , the foster parents of Toby , an 18 - year - old with special educational needs . He moved from Norfolk to Shropshire five months ago on a special guardianship arrangement , with the understanding that his education , health and care plan would be transferred and the provision would continue . Not only can they not afford to transport him around to wherever specialist place might be available ; but because he is over 16 , they have not been able to find a specialist place , so poor old Toby has not been to school since he moved to Shropshire five months ago . The council do not have the resources to solve this problem . There are not enough specialist teachers or educational psychologists , or enough specialist places in state schools . As a result , young people face a postcode lottery when it comes to funding to support their EHCP . In rural areas , transport for children with special needs is particularly problematic because they have to be transported over larger distances at greater cost . Again , the council is not depriving those people through malice or a lack of care ; it simply does not have the funding to meet the demand . Perhaps less seriously — although this still has a huge impact — there is a problem with leisure facilities . Whitchurch in my constituency has recently lost not only the town ’s only performance space but its registry office , driving test centre and library , as well as rooms that community groups can hire out for regular use , because the civic centre has reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete in its roof . We would think that the council would be able to fix the problem , and find some money to repair the roof , but that is not the case . The council can not afford the interest payments and has said that the cost is prohibitive . It is now trying to find alternatives , which will ultimately lead to a lesser space . That is a problem for residents who enjoy the use of those facilities , but it also has a huge economic impact on the town centre , with businesses already reporting to me that they have reduced footfall . That is of great concern . There is a real problem with libraries . A third of libraries have closed in the past 10 years , despite libraries being a statutory service . Because the comprehensive and efficient library service that is required is not defined , lots of councils are cutting libraries and their availability . Again , that is driving deep inequality . The National Literacy Trust has found that children who read at their expected age level are twice as likely to be library users as not to be . If we want to level up , it is really important that we give children from all backgrounds the opportunity to read , access a library , and make the most of their education . I will move on to public transport , which I have talked about a lot in this place . Shropshire has a particularly poor public transport network and has lost the most miles of bus services anywhere in England since 2015 , with 63 % fewer miles being completed by bus than in 2015 . That is a drastic decrease , especially compared with places such as Milton Keynes , where bus miles have increased . There is definitely a way of doing it if we have the funding right . Poor public transport is a problem for the economy because we can not transport workers around , which gives us a labour supply issue . It is a problem for young people trying to access college courses because they do not know whether their bus service will be there next year , and it is a problem for older people who may be trying to access the hospital because to get there by taxi is unaffordable . Again , given that we are about to embark on a general election , this is possibly not the right moment to implore the Minister to allow the franchising of bus services , but I put on record that if councils could fund those services , it would have a huge economic regenerative impact . It would be great to see buses be a priority for all the parties in the general election , because they have such a good impact on increasing labour supply and on enabling people of all ages and all income levels to live , work and get about the community . In conclusion , I want to make the point that rural areas are struggling perhaps more than urban areas , despite the fact that we sometimes assess urban deprivation as worse than rural deprivation . It is certainly more visible , but the central Government funding for local councils has lost touch with reality on the cost of delivering those services , and indeed to some extent on the level of need . When we look at the impact on people , whether it is social care or special educational needs provision , swimming pools or libraries or recycling centres , all those things are suffering and they all cost more to deliver in a rural area . I want to state this case again to all political parties , because we do not know who will be sitting in the Minister ’s seat after the general election : sorting out the fair funding formula is very important . Delivering in rural areas is essential to regenerating the economy in those areas . One fifth of the population live in rural areas . They are underperforming economically and we need to ensure that local councils have the funding they need to provide regeneration and quality of life for those well - deserving people who live in those beautiful parts of Britain . I thank the hon . Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for instigating this debate . I am only sad not to see the hon . Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) in his place — this may be the final Adjournment debate of the Session , and I feel personally hurt that he has not been here to intervene and to give Strangford ’s take on Shropshire . However , I am sure he is somewhere thinking of us and kicking himself that he is not here . The hon . Member for North Shropshire was right to say that all politics is local . She is also right to echo something that I have said on many occasions : most people ’s exposure in our communities is to the facilities and services provided by local councils for their communities . We agree absolutely on that . I want to place on the record my thanks to all the councillors and officers of Shropshire Council , and indeed to local government across the country , for all that they do and strive to do . They get out of bed in the morning to achieve for their communities , to deliver change , to make place and to improve opportunities and living . The hon . Lady referred specifically to libraries . Libraries is a topic very close to my heart , both as a keen reader and , as a child , an avid attender of our local library . Dorset Council has done the most phenomenal work with its libraries in similarly challenging circumstances , being a rural council and the like . I am pretty certain that should her officers in Shropshire reach out to those in Dorset , they would be happy to provide some advice or guidance — call it what you will — on safeguarding the future delivery of those important services . The hon . Lady is right that I have acknowledged — the Government have acknowledged — the challenging financial circumstances of local government , brought about in whole , or certainly in very great part , by pressures on adult social care , special educational needs and disabilities , and home - to - school transport . Around about 80 % of an upper - tier council ’s budget is spent on 10 % to 15 % of its population . We just have to watch that balance to ensure that council tax payers feel that they are getting something for their money . As she will know , I have not committed on behalf of the Government to a root - and - branch review of the local government funding formula , because my assessment is that it is all but broken — an analogue proposal for a digital age that needs reworking from the bottom up . I have always asked for certainty and clarity from the local government sector , and as a Government , we have always been keen to deliver them . In the next Parliament , they could best be delivered by having , in the short term , a multi - year settlement to give that security , and then by Parliament using that time — and I can not overstate the value that I see in this — to provide a cross - party sustainable solution for delivering on these issues . I do not say this flippantly , because I have thought about it , but the hon . Lady has spoken in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall about local government finance and local government issues more generally , and I have answered on many occasions her questions and those of Labour Members , and it suddenly struck me early this morning — I do not know why it struck me then — that although they may identify a problem , I have yet to hear their solution . I have yet to hear the genesis of an idea from the Opposition parties . The Labour party has had 14 years to think about it , and the hon . Lady ’s party has had the past nine years , but there is absolutely no idea . She told us — I jotted down her words contemporaneously — that we need to give consideration to “ how we fund social care , and indeed how we collect council tax . ” I agree with her , but she gave no suggested solution to those pressing problems . I find that very strange given that Opposition parties really have nothing else to do than beaver away on policy to put before the electorate in just a few weeks ’ time . Although the hon . Lady was right to point out that she has no idea , and no more do I , of what the result of the election will be , it is very much my hope that I may be standing at the Government Dispatch Box setting out the plans to which we have committed on the fundamental review and rewriting of local government finance . I shall leave that to the electorate of North Dorset to decide , and I hope that they put their faith and trust in me , as they have done on the past several occasions . Let me turn briefly to some of the figures . I have said them so many times now that I get slightly bored of them , but I think it worthwhile to read them into the record . The local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 makes available up to £ 64.7 billion — an increase in core spending power of up to £ 4.5 billion , or 7.5 % in cash terms , compared with 2023 - 24 . We listened to the views of local government , and many colleagues from across the House , including the hon . Lady , who knows how grateful I was that she took part in the parliamentary level of the consultation that I undertook , which was the highest level of take - up that a Minister has delivered . As a result of listening to what we heard , the Government announced additional measures for local authorities in England worth a further £ 600 million , including £ 500 million of new funding for councils with responsibility for adult and children ’s social care . What does that represent as far as the hon . Lady ’s council is concerned ? The settlement represents an increase in core spending power of up to £ 25.1 million , or 8 % , making available a whopping total of £ 340.2 million in 2024 - 25 . That is not small beer for Shropshire Council . I also recognise , as the hon . Lady does , the additional cost pressures and challenges of delivering quality services in a rural environment with a sparse population and longer travel times , which is why we have set such enormous store by the rural services delivery grant . As she knows , because Shropshire ranks within the top 25 sparsely populated areas in England , her council received an additional £ 9 million through the RSDG for 2024 - 25 on top of the other moneys I have spoken of , in order to assist with the importance and the difficulties of serving dispersed populations . Is it enough — is it ever enough ? Who knows ? We always need more . It is important that every year , councils take the opportunity to learn from others , peer review , and engage the Local Government Association to help them modernise and seek savings through shared services and other initiatives . I know that many councils do that , but not all do . As we know , Shropshire went unitary and gleaned a huge amount of financial benefit from so doing , as did my council area of Dorset . There are things that local authorities can be doing to reduce expenditure and to use the money from the savings they make to continue to deliver those services that , increasingly , people look to their local council to deliver . In conclusion , I am grateful to the hon . Member for North Shropshire for raising this issue . She and I share many things , including a concern for making sure that our rural areas are well represented in this place . I will continue to do that on behalf of my constituents ; I hope the hon . Lady will not take it ill if I say that I hope my party will represent North Shropshire after the general election , but it has been a personal pleasure to work alongside her over these past several months since I have been dealing with local government . She has brought a lot of engagement to the process . I am just sorry that her party has not brought forward any ideas , but let us share those ideas cross - party in the next Parliament to ensure we have a robust settlement rubric that will meet demands : one that will be cost - effective and affordable , but will continue to deliver the quality of public services that so many in our communities rely upon and rightly deserve . Question put and agreed to . House adjourned .