I sincerely thank my right hon . Friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) for securing this Adjournment debate , and for her powerful speech . She really brought the subject to life through the examples from her constituency of people ’s experiences in hospital . They were very difficult stories to hear , and I am very sorry to hear of times when it sounds like the care for people ’s loved ones has fallen short . My right hon . Friend made some powerful points that I want to address , starting with the fact that , as she said , there are many thousands of people living with dementia , and the number is only expected to increase ; indeed , there will be more than a million by 2025 . Many people with dementia will also be living with other health conditions . At the moment , it is estimated that around a quarter of the beds in hospitals are being used by patients with dementia , so ensuring that people receive the right care when they are in hospital with dementia is really important , as is doing our utmost to avoid unnecessary admissions and ensuring that people are discharged from hospital on a timely basis . It is really worth emphasising the point that my right hon . Friend made about dignity , and the fact that every single person counts , at whatever stage of their life . There are challenges to ensure that people living with dementia have that dignity , particularly when they are in hospital . I , too , pay tribute to the many unpaid carers who are looking after their loved ones with dementia . I know what a huge burden and challenge that can be . However much someone loves somebody , there is a huge demand on them when they are caring for somebody with dementia . It can be very difficult , very distressing and absolutely relentless , however much they love them . I pay tribute to all carers who are doing that . My right hon . Friend spoke first about Lisa Rutter , who very sadly lost her mother , who was living with dementia , during the pandemic — in hospital , if I heard my right hon . Friend correctly . I thank Lisa Rutter for the work that she is doing as the founder of Dementia Club UK . It is fabulous to be supporting other people to look after loved ones with dementia , or indeed those with dementia themselves . My right hon . Friend talked about the time Lisa ’s mother spent in hospital , and how , for instance , Lisa knew what her mother needed but felt that she was not listened to , and that it may have contributed to her mother ’s death . My right hon . Friend also talked about the visiting restrictions during the pandemic . I will talk about those in a moment . My right hon . Friend talked about another constituent , whose wife was in hospital . She rightly talked about the importance of mobilising somebody with dementia , and how her constituent ’s wife was nearly given the wrong medication , which could have been fatal . She spoke about the importance of his intervention . She also spoke about a constituent who was a carer for their father , and the importance of mobilisation , and some of the communication challenges for somebody with dementia . My right hon . Friend talked about one person who had been screaming all night , as described by the staff . Actually , the family member who knew them understood that they were calling for help , as they needed to go to the toilet . That brings to life how difficult it can be when somebody has dementia and is not necessarily able to articulate their needs and what they want . Those who know them well will often know what they are trying to say or communicate , but that can be difficult in hospital when they may be being looked after by staff who simply do not know them well enough to know what they mean . My right hon . Friend talked about food being left uneaten . If somebody is not eating in hospital , clearly they are likely to lose weight and their condition may deteriorate . She also talked about medication being stopped , and she talked particularly about somebody whose partner had early onset dementia , and had been coping fairly well at home . He walked into A&E , and that was very sadly the last time he walked . That emphasises the challenge of keeping people moving and maintaining their ability to be mobile during a hospital stay . She also described the fight to visit outside visiting hours . I very much hear my right hon . Friend ’s asks on visitor access , volunteers being trained in dementia care , as well as staff training , and avoiding discharge delays , among other things . I will pick up on some of those . First , on the challenge of caring for people with dementia when in hospital , many hospitals have worked hard to do better for patients with dementia , for example creating dementia - friendly environments by changing the colour and lay - out , ensuring that staff are trained in dementia , and having dementia leads and dementia - lead nurses , as well as having training for volunteers . Standard training in caring for people with dementia is available through NHS England for staff and volunteers . Clearly , my right hon . Friend the Member for Chipping Barnet described examples where care fell short . I have no doubt that across the NHS , with the work already taking place , we can go further . I will raise the points that she made about secondary care with my colleague , the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , so that we can work together on ensuring that care is right in hospitals . He also has oversight of workforce , and we should focus on whether the training that I know is available is being taken up by enough staff , considering the number of people in hospital with dementia . On visiting , my right hon . Friend spoke about a subject that is close to my heart . Having been involved in some of the decisions about social care visiting restrictions during the pandemic and knowing how hard those decisions were — weighing up the infection control concerns and ensuring people could spend time with loved ones — we have been putting in place changes to Care Quality Commission regulation to make visiting a fundamental right , a fundamental part of care and a fundamental standard of care to ensure better access for loved ones to their family members in care homes and in hospitals . I know in particular how important that is for people with dementia , among others . The CQC is consulting on the implementation of the regulatory change , which will be live shortly . I believe we have taken a significant step to address concerns expressed about visiting . Another thing my right hon . Friend spoke about was faster discharge . I am very alert to the risk of patients deconditioning in hospital , particularly patients with dementia . That is why over the past year or so , we have worked hard with the NHS to get better at identifying patients at greater risk of deconditioning , in particular those with dementia , on their admission to hospital . We have done earlier discharge planning and have been getting care transfer hubs established all across the country , which will do the work on more complex discharges . Often someone with dementia may need more access to social care . We may need to increase the access to , availability and supply of social care , so that it is there for those who will need it when they leave hospital . We have made some real progress on that over the past year .