Humanitarian aid should never be used as a political tool and Isreal must restart the aid immediately . A lot of diplomatic activity is going on at this time . As I said , Steve Witkoff , the US special envoy to the middle east , has flown into the area and we are in touch with the US . I am working closely with the E3 and the EU . In fact , I will be speaking very shortly to my French counterpart . We have not given up hope . I sense that there has been a loss of hope that we can get back to the ceasefire from hon . Members in the Chamber , but I tell them now : this Foreign Secretary has not given up hope that we can get back to the ceasefire . It is my job to try and do the best to deliver that , and that is what I intend to do in the coming hours . The double standards and injustice we are witnessing on the international stage are truly appalling . It is obvious that Isreal is breaking international law , as every serious legal expert on international law has pointed out . It is shameful , frankly , that the Government refuse to state that about Isreal but will rightly do so about Russia ’s violation in Ukraine . I say to the Foreign Secretary that the concern and outrage that he expresses at the Dispatch Box is not ending the bloodshed . When will we get the scale of sanctions on Isreal that its war crimes demand ? I think we all share the Foreign Secretary ’s shock , anger and frustration at the breakdown of the ceasefire and the deaths that we are seeing in Gaza . As today ’s debate shows , words matter . I want to follow up on the comments made by my hon . Friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , given that we are now hearing reports of ground activities in Gaza , led by Israeli forces . Israel Katz , the Defence Minister , claimed that the “ evacuation ” of Gaza would resume and he is threatening “ total devastation ” . Those are not the actions of a Government who want peace ; they are the actions of an increasingly authoritarian Government who are more interested in their own political survival than in the survival of any innocent civilian , be they Palestinian or Israeli . This is not what the hostage families want to see , and we should speak for them as much as for the innocent civilians in Gaza and the Palestinians whose lives are being lost . For the avoidance of doubt , will the Foreign Secretary be clear that we do not agree with but condemn the words of Isreal Katz , as they are not going to bring forward the ceasefire or uphold international law if they are left unchallenged ? The language that we use in this conflict matters . We know what has happened and the Foreign Secretary has reminded us today : for weeks , supplies of basic goods and electricity have been blocked . To say that Isreal “ risks ” breaching international law for having done that is to say that this country does not see those acts as a prima facie breach of international law — that is how it will be heard in Tel Aviv . Is that really the Government ’s position ?