Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I thank all hon . Members for their fine contributions , including my hon . Friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the hon . Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . It is the greatest honour of my life to serve the people of Stratford - on - Avon . I am humbled to have been elected to represent the place that I call home , where I live and where I have raised my family , who are here today in the Public Gallery . I am proud to be the first Liberal MP for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elected to this role . I extend my heartfelt thanks to the people of Stratford , Alcester , Studley , Shipston , Henley , Bidford and the many villages and hamlets that make up our beautiful constituency . I thank them for placing their trust in me . I promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fighting every day for the fair deal that they deserve . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadhim Zahawi , who was MP for Stratford - on - Avon for the last 14 years . During his political career he covered many important roles in the Cabinet , but I thank him in particular for his work as vaccines Minister during the covid pandemic . I also acknowledge the service of the late John Maples , who represented Stratford - upon - Avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before being elevated to the other place . He was both well liked and greatly admired . Although I am proud to be the first female MP for Stratford - upon - Avon , I am not the first to bring Italian heritage to the role . That distinction belongs to another of my predecessors , John Profumo , who beat me to it — although I plan on a much quieter stay in the history books . My constituency is one of the most beautiful areas of our country , with luscious woodland such as the Heart of England forest , valleys lapped by rivers and brooks , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the Warwickshire countryside can be . My connection to my constituency is one of deep love . I love the stretches from Shipston - on - Stour and the rolling Cotswolds fringes in the south , to the Avon valley villages and Henley - in - Arden in the north , where the majestic forest of Arden once stood . At the heart of my constituency lies the town of Stratford - upon - Avon , celebrated worldwide as the birthplace of the greatest playwright of all : William Shakespeare . Each year on William ’s birthday , the town remembers and celebrates its most famous son , with civic dignitaries and local schoolchildren parading through the historic streets to lay flowers on his tomb in Holy Trinity church . I look forward to joining them next April . What makes our constituency special above all is its people , who are resilient and community minded . Each town and village is blessed with warm - hearted volunteers helping in repair cafés , food banks , the community speed watch and flood action groups . There are outstanding places of learning , such as our local schools and colleges , the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham , and the University of Warwick ’s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisations such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust ; as well as grassroots arts companies such as the Bear Pit Theatre and Escape Arts . Events such as the Shipston Proms celebrate the wealth of musical talent . Most of all , we are a constituency of entrepreneurs and innovators , businesses and social enterprises . Overlooked by Beaudesert castle — known locally as “ the Mount”—the town of Henley - in - Arden has a timber - framed high street , which includes Henley ’s most famous attraction , Henley Ice Cream , which is well worth a visit . Alcester is a town rich in community spirit that comes together each year for events such as the Alcester food festival . The town ’s roots stretch back to Roman times , and its heritage is proudly preserved today in the Roman Alcester Museum . Just up the road from Alcester is Coughton Court , home of the Throckmorton family , who played a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . As the new MP for the area , I assure the House that I will not continue that local tradition . My constituency also has some of the most beautiful waterways in the country . The Rivers Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour , and our fantastic canal network , including the longest canal aqueduct in England — the Edstone aqueduct — are not only vital to our community ’s natural and industrial heritage , but are central to our environmental responsibilities . Sadly , not enough has been done to tackle river pollution . I thank residents for joining citizens ’ science projects to regularly test the water and collect much - needed data on the state of our rivers ’ health , so that we can hold the Government and water companies to account . As a rural constituency , we face many challenges : NHS dentistry deserts , long waiting times for mental health services , special educational needs and disabilities families battling for education provision , and fuel poverty . Many of my vulnerable constituents live in off - grid homes that are expensive to heat . The Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 , introduced by Sir David Amess , was important legislation that sought to eliminate fuel poverty . To further combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that homes are safe , warm and cheap to heat . As Shakespeare wrote : “ Some are born great , some achieve greatness , and others have greatness thrust upon ’em . ” I stand here today not because I was born great , or because I sought greatness , but because the people of Stratford - upon - Avon have entrusted me with public service . Together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituents and our country . With a new Parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fairer , greener and more inclusive future . The stage is set , and it is now time for us to play our part .