I am grateful for being able to contribute to this debate . It is a privilege to follow so many powerful speeches , and the speech delivered by my hon . Friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) was the most powerful I have heard in this place . Her words rose to the moment ; mine are inadequate by comparison . I can only thank her for speaking so powerfully about an issue that affects so many of us . I welcome the new Secretary of State to his place , and thank him for the way in which he opened this debate . At the outset , I draw the House ’s attention to my background as an officer of the GMB union and my current unpaid role as chair of the GMB parliamentary group . In that capacity , I thank the hon . Member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , as he leaves the Chamber , for what he said about Members ’ staff in this place . GMB is the union that represents the majority of people who work in support of us as Members of this House . I am sad to say that they are perhaps uniquely vulnerable to some of the abusive practices that have shamed our democracy for too long , and I am at a loss to understand how the relevant Lords amendments were ever brought forward from the other place . I wish to speak specifically against Lords amendments 121 , 11 and 1 , and in support of the Government amendments that seek to strike them out . Before doing so , I want to say a few words about my hon . Friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who is not in his place at the moment . As a former shadow Minister and latterly as the sponsoring Minister for this Bill , he unfailingly and characteristically brought graft , industry and good humour to the brief . This will be a weaker and lesser Bill without him , and those of us who support the Bill and its principles owe him a debt of thanks . I am glad that my hon . Friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , who brings a real depth of knowledge and understanding to the role of Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , is now guarding the Bill ’s passage to Royal Assent . I know that she will be both pro - worker and pro - business in her approach . I believe that Lords amendment 121 contains significant drafting weaknesses and would fundamentally alter the nature of the proposed and restored school support staff negotiating body . First , the amendment states that employers may introduce new terms and conditions of employment that “ meet or exceed any minimum standards set by the SSSNB . ” In legal terms , however , the SSSNB will not set or determine those standards ; it is a statutory forum for negotiation . The actual conditions of employment will be set through regulations drafted by the Secretary of State and approved by Parliament . Secondly , the actual parameters of a future pay and grading structure will be negotiated by the relevant parties : the representatives of employers , and the representatives of employees . That was the spirit of the original 2008 Act and the actual operation of the SSSNB in its original incarnation . Given my experience as a former trade union officer representing school support staff , I know the contractual issues that need to be addressed are so complicated that they can not be satisfactorily resolved on the Floor of the House . That complexity is a result of 14 years of drift , dither and political disinterest in the 800,000 support staff workers in England who keep our schools going , and it is a damning indictment of the decision to cancel the original SSSNB . Finally , Lords amendment 121 risks creating confusion at a local level . The amendment states that employers must not be restricted from introducing “ improved terms and conditions ” , but changes to contracts are not merely introduced ; they are consulted on and agreed , either individually or collectively , under existing statutes . The effect of the somewhat loose wording in the amendment may be to encourage local attempts to make unilateral variations to contracts and terms and conditions . Members who support this amendment might say that only improvements could be made under it , but both “ improvement ” and “ detriment ” are subjective terms . They are in the eye of the beholder , and I believe that if the amendment were to be carried through , the actual effect may be to increase the number of court cases concerning school support staff . I urge the Opposition not to push a point , and to reconsider their wider opposition to the school support staff negotiating body . School support staff undertake essential roles , and they deserve the same professional standards and professional respect that is afforded to teachers . That is what the restoration of the school support staff negotiating body will achieve . We have debated the official Opposition ’s amendments many times at various stages , but I want to comment on some of the Lords amendments that stand in the names of Liberal Democrat peers , either in whole or in part . When I entered this Chamber at the start of the debate , I did not presume that those amendments necessarily enjoyed the support of the Liberal Democrat Front Benchers in the Commons , but I am afraid that impression was dispelled by the contribution from the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . I am at a loss to understand how the radical change in approach has come about among the Liberal Democrats in this House between Committee stage , Report , Third Reading and the debate that we are holding today . In fact , listening to the hon . Lady , I felt an uncomfortable sense of déjà vu : it was like watching the Rose Garden press conference all over again . After all , her Front - Bench colleagues — the hon . Members for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) and for Torbay ( Steve Darling)—were at all times appropriately critical in Committee , but they were essentially supportive of the principle of enhancing workers ’ rights . Lords amendment 11 , which was originally a Conservative amendment in the Commons but now stands in the name of a Liberal Democrat peer , was not supported by the Liberal Democrats in Committee . Lords amendment 1 , which stands in the names of both Liberal Democrat and Conservative peers , seeks to amend clause 1 . However , the Liberal Democrats supported that clause in Committee and only voiced concern , which was reasonable , that timely guidance to employers must be issued to accompany it ; indeed , they voted with Labour Members when it was put to a vote in Committee . I fear that this amendment , too , could have serious unintended consequences . The clause that it seeks to amend puts a duty on employers to offer regular - hours contracts to “ workers”—that is the language used in the legislation as it stands at the moment — but the amendment seeks to convert that duty into a right to request by employees . “ Employees ” is , of course , a more restrictive category than “ workers ” ; indeed , clause 148 of the Bill as drafted makes it clear that for the purpose of the interpretation of this Bill , “ workers ” and “ employees ” mean two different things . Many of the people who are classed only as “ workers ” are precisely those who may benefit the most from these protections . Some 5 million people who are nominally casual workers in sectors such as social care , construction , hospitality , security and retail could be excluded from these protections if the amendment , which stands in the names of Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers , were to be carried . I hope it is not the intention of those on the Conservative Benches to exclude those 5 million people . At the start of this debate , I could not believe that that was the intention of the Liberal Democrats , but now I am not so sure .