I believe it is customary in a maiden speech for the Member to pay tribute to their predecessor , which I am very happy to do . Giles Watling is a very decent , nice , honourable man . He is former actor who wears his Garrick club tie . There is nothing even vaguely Conservative about him , but he is a jolly nice chap , and it was a clean - fought campaign . Earlier , the right hon . Member for South Holland and The Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) made reference to Clacton as being the place for a traditional English seaside holiday , and indeed it is , with its pier , miles of sandy beaches and arcades . Perhaps it is not a holiday destination that is as popular as it used to be , now that people go to Spain and elsewhere , but it is still there . Other parts of the constituency are genteel and quite wealthy , but if we go to Jaywick we find the most deprived community in the whole United Kingdom . Those communities have little faith , trust or belief that Government can make their lives better . Indeed , what I found , when knocking on doors , was that people were saying , “ We want to work — we want to get on and make money — but as soon as we work 16 hours a week or more , our benefits get taken away , so we ’re better off staying on benefits . ” I feel immensely sorry for those people , because the benefit system , which is designed to help them , is actually keeping them trapped in levels of relative poverty . I will do my best as the MP for the area to bring business investment — private money — into the constituency , with jobs , training and skills . I can not promise that I will do it , but I will do my absolute damnedest to make it happen . It is funny , because I spent nearly 21 years as a Member of the European Parliament , in Brussels and with its monthly journey to Strasbourg . I have to say that this place is very different indeed . It is smaller . There is not a chauffeur - driven Mercedes available for each Member . There are no large lump sums of money that Members do not have to spend on anything or show receipts for . I wonder whether that is why so many in the British political system seem to adore the European Union so much , because it is a rather wonderful place to work . What I did not expect was to come here and find that I , with my Reform team , am more outnumbered here than we were in the European Parliament , because there are more supporters of Brexit in the European Parliament than I sense there are in this Parliament of 2024 . This is very much a remainers ’ Parliament . I suspect , in many cases , that it is really a rejoiners ’ Parliament . If we look at the King ’s Speech , it is interesting that the word “ immigration ” is mentioned only twice and “ asylum ” just once . Perhaps that is not a surprise , as when the now Prime Minister laid out the six big priorities for the Labour party before the general election , he did not mention legal or illegal immigration . That is the other area in which the five of us sitting on the Reform Bench will find ourselves massively outnumbered in the House , because we actually want to talk about these issues . I believe that the population explosion is having a bigger impact on the quality of life of ordinary folk than any other issue . It all started , of course , when the current Home Secretary became a Member of Parliament back in May 1997 . It is worth reminding ourselves that net migration was the same during the late 1940s , the whole of the 1950s , the whole of the 1960s , the whole of the 1970s , the whole of the 1980s and in the 1990s , up until Mr Blair . Net migration ran at 30,000 to 50,000 a year for over half a century . Then Mr Blair got in and decided that we were going to open the doors in a way that had never been done before , to the delight and joy of big companies , especially giant multinationals , who have always wanted as much cheap labour as they can get , and to hell with the consequences for working - class families and people . Perhaps it was even more of a surprise to see that massive acceleration in our population through immigration then further accelerate , because despite promises in four consecutive manifestos , the Conservative party actually accelerated what had happened under the years of Mr Blair , so we have seen a population increase of 10 million people since the time that Labour won its last landslide . Even the net figure is a migrant a minute . Even during the course of this debate , many hundreds more people will have come to our country . Nobody is making the argument that there are not some exceptionally wonderful people among them — there are , of course — but the sheer level of population means we have to build a new house every two minutes . Even if the Labour Government are able to fulfil the 1.5 million houses that they want to build during the lifetime of this Parliament , that will make no dent at all in the current shortage of housing . Rents have risen by 25 % since 2021 . Why ? Population increase and pressure . The list goes on , from access to health services to congestion and pressure on infrastructure . The population crisis has the biggest impact on people ’s lives , damaging their quality of life , and virtually nobody in this place even wants to talk about it . It is on illegal immigration that I really want to make a point . Four years ago , I went out into the English channel repeatedly , filming dinghies coming across the channel , with an average of 16 people per boat . I was described as being a sad , lonely , desperate figure , always seeking attention , and I have no doubt there are some who think that is still the case today .