Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . It is the privilege of my life to give my first speech in the House of Commons as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency . Having been a candidate since 2022 , it still feels rather surreal to be on this side of the election and to say those words , and in truth I hope that standing here in this awe - inspiring place will always feel at least a little surreal . I could not be more grateful to fellow residents for the time that thousands of them have given in speaking with me and my volunteer team on their doorsteps over the years already , and for putting their faith in me to serve them well . But no matter how people voted , I will work hard every day to serve all residents as an active , impactful and approachable MP that they can be proud of . I come from a family of teachers , NHS workers and RAF service members , and their sense of public service runs deep in me . I have spent my life working with and for those who too often do not have enough of a voice on issues that matter to them — on global poverty , on opportunity , on the environment and on the housing crisis . I am at my core a campaigner and advocate . I whole- heartedly believe in the power of community , and that lived experience is as valid in shaping policy and public services as holding multiple degrees in that same subject . I see this role , which I am honoured to hold for a time , as being a vital jigsaw piece , joining together with others to make life fairer for people across our community and our country . The NHS workers , the charity workers , the teachers , the carers , the innovators and the volunteers — I could go on — are the ones who bind us . That is certainly the case across our rich tapestry of towns and villages just north of the city of Bristol in glorious South Gloucestershire . I am determined to put the whole of the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency — named after the oldest and youngest towns at the time of its creation , and including many distinct and vibrant communities — on the map . It is the home of Concorde and the future of flight , with our aerospace companies setting the standard nationally and internationally . It is the home of the lifesaving NHS Blood and Transplant , the innovative University of the West of England and the vital Ministry of Defence Abbey Wood . It is also home to Wallace and Gromit , more places called Stoke then one could count after a few great local ciders , and a palpable belief that better days still lie ahead . People in my constituency do not ask for too much . We want security , stability and fairness , and to know that if we work hard , we have the same chance as anyone else to fulfil our potential . We want to know that we will be able to provide for our families through good wages earned from decent jobs , and to enjoy life and give back in our own way . I am incredibly grateful for the fact that even though they have been up against so much in recent years , people in my community chose to keep their faith in better . I will work hard every day to repay that trust . With that in mind , while it is almost impossible for any two people , let alone 75,000 of us across a constituency , to agree on everything all the time , I will always be up front with fellow residents , will listen , and will share what decisions I am making and why . I believe that how we do things in politics matters almost as much as what we do . I appreciate my part — my responsibility — in doing politics differently and having better conversations . On that note , I give thanks to my predecessors . Jack Lopresti championed defence , and I know that he will be glad of this Government ’s continued support for Ukraine . Before recent boundary changes , some local residents were served by Luke Hall , and briefly by my hon . Friend the Member for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) , when he was the last Member for Kingswood . My true thanks to them and their predecessors for their service . I also want to give my personal thanks to two other former Members of this House who have been important in my journey to this place . Sally Keeble was the nearest Labour MP to me when I was growing up in a village that still does not have a Labour MP . She took me under her wing and first encouraged me to think about standing to serve in this place . I also thank Tony Blair , whom I had the privilege of working closely with for a few years at his Institute for Global Change . His approach to considered and considerate leadership has taught me a great deal . It was the last Labour Government ’s response to the Make Poverty History campaign that showed me that politics at its best can be an unparalleled force for good , and that significant change can happen when people power meets political power . That is when I first found the Labour party . I got into politics , like many , to make a difference , but I was driven every day by the simple belief that someone ’s background should not determine their life chances and life choices . That is why it feels fitting to give this speech today , in a debate that is fundamentally about how we make our Parliament better and fairer . While I am a great supporter of British institutions and traditions , there is clearly no place in a modern Parliament for people — largely men — who can vote on legislation as a birthright , because their father did . As a new officer of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , and as a soon - to - be member of the upcoming group focusing on political and media literacy , I will work hard and across the divide to help others to feel as confident , capable and comfortable as anyone else in these spaces . I hope to show that if I can stand here today — a girl from a village who had , and still has , a simple belief in making life fairer — so can anyone . I am fully committed to serving local people well , putting our priorities at the heart of the agenda and breaking down barriers to opportunity , so that everybody has their chance to thrive . I end by thanking my family , friends , campaign team and community , who inspire me every day .