It has always been clear to me , in my conversations with the bereaved and survivors and with families and next of kin , that the demographics in terms of race speak their own story , and that is similarly the case with disability . That is why it has informed our policy in PEEPs , which I will talk to shortly , as well as our entire agenda around residents ’ voice in social housing , which I will also come on to . My hon . Friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and I were in the very early stages of our time as Members of Parliament in 2017 , and I know exactly where I was sitting during the discussions we had then — I can see it but 10 metres from here . As I have said in every debate of this kind since I have been a Minister , if we had said to ourselves then that in eight years we would have achieved as little as we have , we would have thought that a significant failure . It is a significant failure , and I want those watching this debate to know that we understand that . My hon . Friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater said that the progress is glacial . That is exactly right , and it behoves us to change that with real intent . That is my commitment and the Deputy Prime Minister ’s commitment . Last September , Sir Martin Moore - Bick published the inquiry ’s final report . It is a hugely important staging post and driver for action . The findings were clear : the system failed at every point — public , private , local , national . Families were failed . Residents ’ voices were ignored . Dishonest practices were propagated . The Prime Minister has apologised on behalf of the British state for its part in the failures that led to entirely avoidable deaths . I want to repeat the Prime Minister ’s words : it should never have happened . We published our response to the inquiry in February . We accepted the findings and committed to delivering on all 58 recommendations and to going further through a broader approach to reform , including with regard to construction products . Last month we published our progress report on delivery , and we will continue to report on a quarterly basis . The next progress report in September will be a very big one , because we will also publish our full implementation plan , setting out how we will deliver the recommendations . I agree with my hon . Friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater that the legacy must be system change . I agree with what my hon . Friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) says about it being a long time , and I know from speaking to the bereaved and survivors that they are frustrated that some of the recommendations will take time . The commitment I will make from this Dispatch Box is that nothing will take a day longer than it has to take . We are working with urgency and intent , and we will be very transparent as we do .