We now move on to debate clauses 12 , 13 and 19 . Before I delve into the detail of the clauses , however , let me first briefly set out how they fit into this Finance Bill . The Government remain focused on taking long - term decisions to strengthen the economy by driving productivity , increasing the number of people in high - wage , high - skilled jobs , and boosting investment . The Government are also ensuring that the tax system is as competitive as we can make it under very difficult economic circumstances . We have some of the most generous investment incentives among major economies , including full permanent expensing , which the OBR has forecast will generate almost £ 3 billion of additional business investment each year , or £ 14 billion over the next five years . It has forecast that that additional investment will increase GDP by 0.1 % by the end of the forecast . In addition to full expensing , we have an internationally competitive corporation tax rate — the lowest headline rate in the G7 — which this Bill legislates to maintain . I will now turn to clauses 12 , 13 and 19 in more detail . Clauses 12 and 13 set the charge for corporation tax from April 2025 . This includes both the main rate and the small profits rate , as well as the thresholds at which those rates apply . The charge for corporation tax must be set every year . It is important to legislate annually in advance , as this provides certainty to large and very large companies that pay tax in advance on the basis of their estimated tax liabilities . These clauses maintain the current main rate of 25 % and the small profits rate of 19 % , as introduced in April 2023 . Tax certainty is of great importance to businesses — I think that is something we can all agree on — and clauses 12 and 13 ensure that they will continue to benefit from stable and predictable tax rules . By maintaining the current rates , the Government have struck the right balance between remaining competitive and raising vital revenue . Clause 19 makes changes to ensure that the energy profits levy will no longer apply if oil and gas prices return to historically normal levels for a sustained period of time . It does so by introducing legislation to give effect to the energy security investment mechanism , or ESIM . The EPL was introduced in 2022 , at a time of near - record high oil and gas prices , but it is right that should those prices return to historically normal levels , the additional tax would cease to apply . The detail of how the ESIM operates was set out in the technical note published alongside the 2023 autumn statement ; this Bill simply puts that detail on a legislative footing and provides for secondary legislation to legislate for the administrative details of how that check is made . Current oil and gas prices are higher than normal , and OBR projections indicate that high prices will persist over the next five years . The ESIM is a mechanism that switches off the EPL if , for a period of six months , the average prices of both oil and gas fall below set thresholds . Those thresholds are currently $ 74.21 per barrel for oil and 50p per therm for gas , and are based on a 20 - year historical average to the end of 2022 — before higher energy prices began — and are adjusted each April based on the annual change in the preceding December ’s consumer prices index . By providing certainty on the conditions under which the levy will be disapplied , the Government are supporting investor confidence in the sector and helping to protect domestic energy supply , the economy , and of course jobs . Clauses 12 and 13 provide certainty to businesses by maintaining the current rates of corporation tax , and clause 19 has been welcomed by the oil and gas operators and their investors , with the ESIM providing the sector with certainty to support future investment in the UK — in jobs and in our energy security — while also ensuring fairness to taxpayers . I therefore commend these clauses to the Committee .