Boosting British exports , especially for our small businesses , is vital to creating jobs and economic growth , and it absolutely must be a strategic priority for the Government . This secondary legislation is a welcome step forward , giving UK Export Finance the opportunity to grow its portfolio of projects to help deliver for businesses across the country . This measure will be very important to my constituents , as Wokingham is one of the best places in the country to do business , and the Government should continue to help unlock our growth potential . We ranked 15th of 362 local authorities for competitiveness between 2017 and 2021 . The gross value added per filled job vacancy was 23.5 % , which is significantly faster than the rest of Berkshire and the south - east . My constituency has great examples of where Government support programmes have delivered success , such as M2 M Pharmaceuticals , which won a King ’s award for enterprise this year . Tomorrow , I am visiting Intersurgical , another great success story for Wokingham business , which designs , manufactures and supplies medical devices . Having grown from seven people in 1982 to upwards of 3,500 employees worldwide , it now exports its products globally . However , I am sure it is deeply concerned about the Budget ’s impact on maintaining its profitability . I look forward to hearing from the company what more the Government need to do to support its success . There is certainly more that should be done to boost British exporters and improve Britain ’s trade policy . To start , the Government urgently need to fix our broken relations with the EU to foster closer co - operation with our largest trading partner . We must cut vast swathes of red tape and reduce the trade barriers that hold back our businesses . For example , the Government should urgently negotiate a veterinary and plant health agreement with the EU to reverse the decline in British agrifood exports since 2019 . Securing bespoke mutual recognition agreements for Britain ’s engineers , architects , lawyers and accountants would also help British businesses across a variety of sectors to secure greater export opportunities . The trade associations I have met made one thing overtly clear : the impact of Brexit is hurting their profits , and we need to fix this mess . On trade , I hope this Government do not follow the Conservative party ’s approach of negotiating trade deals in desperation , which led to weak outcomes , as we can see from the results . For instance , the Conservatives failed to guarantee British standards on animal welfare and environmental protections in agreements such as the Australia trade deal , at an especially difficult time for the agriculture sector . Even a Tory former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs described that agreement as “ not actually a very good deal”.—[Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c. 424 . ] Parliament never gets a proper say on our trade deals , eliminating the opportunity to stop the Government barrelling ahead with deals that are deeply unpopular . I respect the Minister greatly , but there is a lot to get right , and to fix from the previous Government . Will he meet me and representatives from Wokingham businesses , such as Xpert , which is struggling to secure UK export finance , to hear what they need from his Department ? Will he set out to the House the specific forms of scrutiny we will get when the Government conclude the trade deal ? Will his Department renegotiate the Australia and New Zealand trade agreement ?