With permission , I would like to make a statement about the future of our higher education sector and the changes that we will be making for students in the upcoming academic year , 2025 - 26 . Before I go further , I want to make clear the approach that this Labour Government take to our universities and , above all , to the students whose education is their central purpose , because the Conservative Government did not just talk down universities ; they talked down the aspirations of working - class families across our country , and they dismissed the ambition of our young people and undermined their opportunities . This Government take a different approach . We are determined to break down the barriers to opportunity , and higher education is central to that mission . Higher education is part of what makes our country great . It enriches our culture , powers our economy and sustains intellectual traditions stretching back centuries . It is a beacon of opportunity — to students not just from this country , but from across the world — and a sector of which everyone in this House ought to be proud . But when this Government took office in July , we found a university sector facing severe financial challenges . With tuition fees frozen for the last seven years , universities have suffered a significant real - terms decline in their income . We also found a regulator subject to political whim , unable to focus on the challenges our universities face . A succession of Conservative Ministers faced with tough decisions had , for year after year , ducked them time and again . We inherited in our universities , as across so much of our public sector , the consequences of long years of shameful abdication of responsibility : long years in which I heard too often from students of the gap between the course they were promised and the experience they had , about the trouble they had making ends meet as they worked hard not merely at their studies but often at two or more jobs on top ; long years in which I saw the amazing research our universities deliver but how infrequently those triumphs drove wider success ; and long years in which I heard from international students , who make such an important contribution to our country , that the previous Government had made them feel neither valued nor welcomed . That is the mess that Opposition Members left behind , but where the Conservatives shirked the hard choices , this Government have not hesitated to grip the challenges we face and take the tough decisions to restore stability to higher education , to fix the foundations and to deliver change . We have accepted in full the recommendations of the independent review of the Office for Students . We have also brought new leadership to the office and refocused its work to monitor universities ’ finances and to hold leadership to account . I thank Sir David Behan for his work both leading the independent review and now as its interim chair . We have paused the commencement of the last Government ’s freedom of speech legislation while we consider the impacts on universities , students and the regulator , because although universities must be home to robust discussion and rigorous challenge , regulation must also be workable . I am here today to make two sets of announcements on higher education reform , addressing the challenges our students and universities face , and gripping these issues as a responsible Government . First , we will fix the foundations . We will secure the future of higher education so that students can benefit from a world - class education for generations to come . That is why I am announcing that , in line with the forecasts set out in the Budget last week , from April 2025 we will be increasing the maximum cap for tuition fees in line with inflation to £ 9,535 — an increase of £ 285 per academic year.[Official Report , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c. 4WC . ] ( Correction ) I understand that some students may worry about the impact that the increase will have on their loan debt , so I want to reassure students already at university that when they start repaying their loan , they will not see higher monthly repayments as a result of these changes to fee and maintenance loans . That is because student loans are not like consumer loans ; monthly repayments depend on earnings , not simply the amount borrowed or interest rates , and at the end of any loan term , any outstanding loan balance , including interest built up , will be written off . Increasing the fee cap has not been an easy decision , but I want to be crystal clear that this will not cost graduates more each month as they start to repay their loans . Universities are responsible for managing their own finances and must act to remain sustainable , but Members across the House will agree that it is no use keeping tuition fees down for future students if the universities are not there for them to attend , nor if students can not afford to support themselves while they study . I therefore confirm that we will boost support for students with living costs by increasing maximum maintenance loans in line with inflation , giving them an additional £ 414 a year in ’ 25 - 26 . I also confirm that from the start of the ’ 25 - 26 academic year a lower fee limit of £ 5,760 will be introduced for foundation years in classroom - based subjects such as business , social science and humanities . The Government recognise the importance of foundation years for promoting access to higher education , but they can be delivered more efficiently in classroom - based subjects , at a lower cost to students . The change that the Government are bringing about must go further , so my second set of announcements signals the start of deeper change for our students , our universities and our country . Today , I will set out the scale of our ambition to build a higher education system fit for the challenges not just of today but of tomorrow . In the months ahead , we will publish our proposals , because in universities , as across our public services , investment can come only with the promise of major reform . The contribution of higher education to our economy , our communities and our country must grow and strengthen . That begins with universities doing more to spread opportunity to disadvantaged students , in both expanding access and improving outcomes . Our most recent data shows why . The gap between disadvantaged students and their peers in progression to university by age 19 is the highest on record . I will not tolerate that shameful divide any longer . Universities can and must do more , and they must rise to the huge challenge of technological change , supporting adults with the flexibility that they need to retrain . That is why we confirmed in the Budget that we are pressing ahead with the lifelong learning entitlement . While the UK is home to many world - class universities , it is time that all students in higher education in this country feel the benefit . It is time to raise the bar further on teaching standards , to improve our world - leading reputation and drive out poor practice , and it is time to ensure that all students get good value for money , which , if we are honest , has not always been the case in the past . Furthermore , universities must do more to raise their impact beyond their gates . They must do more to drive the growth that this country sorely needs by attracting talent from around the world , joining with Skills England , employers and partners in further education to deliver the skills that people and businesses need , and shaping world - class research to create good jobs across the country . Members across the House will know how important universities can be for the areas that surround them — not just local economies but local communities . I want universities to work harder to embed themselves in those local communities , as civic anchors — the beating heart of local life in our towns and cities — not ivory towers far from local concerns . Lying beneath those challenges must be a further transformation : a renewed drive for efficiency . Students and taxpayers support the costs of our universities . They are right to expect that every penny is spent effectively . We will not accept wasteful spending . Universities must rise to the challenge , which means ensuring that the pay of their top teams is fair and justifiable . I am determined that our world - class higher education sector does not merely survive in the years ahead but thrives , supporting students in every corner of our country and at every stage of their lives . I am determined that our universities become all that I know they can be . The scale of our ambition demands a new approach , rooted in partnership , so I look forward to partnering with the sector , the Office for Students and UK Research and Innovation . I will work closely with Ministers across Government , in particular the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , to deliver a reformed and strengthened higher education system for our country . As today the Government look to the future , I am reminded that more than 60 years have passed since the Robbins report on higher education was presented to this House , with its famous principle “ that courses of higher education should be available for all those who are qualified by ability and attainment to pursue them and who wish to do so . ” That principle drove the expansion of higher education over the decades that followed , under successive Governments of both parties . It is central to the thinking of this Government today . That is why responsible Governments must treat universities not as a political battleground but as a public good . It is why Government Members want to see the continued success of our young people , and it is why we are determined to ensure the sustainability and success of our higher education sector , not just in the years ahead but for decades to come . I commend this statement to the House .