I congratulate the hon . Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) on securing the debate . I could easily spend my whole speech talking about the challenge of increasing girls ’ participation in PE and sport in schools . Despite the progress made through initiatives such as the “ This Girl Can ” campaign , there is still a gender gap , with only 32 % of girls aged five to 15 achieving the recommended 60 minutes of physical activity each day compared to 41 % of boys , according to Sport England ’s “ Active Lives ” survey in 2023 . We have come a long way since my schooldays in the ’ 80s , when girls over eight were not allowed to play competitive mixed football and there were no girls ’ teams I could join . I have been delighted to see the great strides made in women ’s football in recent years and it was a joy to join a girls ’ training session at Pucklechurch primary school recently . The 20 - plus girls running around on a very small pitch showed that girls really do like football . However , I want to focus today on a different area of inequality : the participation in PE of children and young people with special educational needs and disabilities . I am pleased that the hon . Lady raised this issue in her speech . Children with SEND are one and a half times more likely to be inactive compared to their peers without SEND . We know the benefits that physical activity can bring : improved mental and physical health , boosted self - esteem , and important social opportunities for SEND students . So , what are the barriers ? Only 14 % of PE teachers feel fully confident in adapting activities for children with SEND , according to research by the Youth Sport Trust . There is a significant gap in teacher training for inclusive sport . Schools often lack access to the necessary adaptive equipment , making it difficult for SEND students to engage in physical activity on an equal footing with their peers . Provision is inconsistent , with some schools able to offer much more well - developed programmes for SEND students than others . One consequence of that , which may surprise some , is that it can lead to increased absence for SEND students . The Youth Sport Trust has highlighted that pupils with SEND are more likely to experience disengagement in physical education , which can lead to increased school absences . A report from Scope , a leading disability charity , found that children with SEND who feel excluded from physical activity are at higher risk of developing mental health challenges , which can further exacerbate absence . A study by the National Autistic Society found that students with autism , in particular , are more likely to be absent from school when PE lessons are not adapted to their needs , with absences increasing by up to 20 % for those students . To tackle that , Scope calls for more accessible PE facilities and training for teachers on how to adapt physical activity for SEND students . It emphasises the importance of inclusive support , suggesting that schools offer a broader range of activities that cater to different abilities , from wheelchair sports to multi - sensory activities . The National Autistic Society stresses the importance of clear communication , structured environments and sensory friendly approaches , while Special Olympics Great Britain highlights that a key barrier for children with SEND is the lack of mainstream sports clubs that offer inclusive programmes , urging schools and communities to create partnerships with local clubs , offering pathways to competitive sports for SEND children and fostering an inclusive and welcoming environment . On that , I would like to highlight the work of Yate ’s acrobatic gymnastics centre . Contrary to the hon . Member for Stafford , I do think this will require some funding for adaptive equipment and the specialist training for staff . I will conclude by highlighting the work done by the charity Gympanzees , which is currently fundraising to open in my constituency the UK ’s first fully accessible exercise , play and social centre for disabled children and young people . I had the privilege of visiting its pop - up offerings before I was an MP , where I saw for myself the fantastic holiday activities it provides with an array of specialist equipment and dedicated staff . It has had a massive impact on its users ’ lives , whether that is the three - year - old laughing for the first time , the 16 - year - old who had refused any form of sport at home and school but who rowed a kilometre on their rowing machine , the nine - year - old who held up his head on his own for 10 minutes for the first time , or the 57 children and young people who were able to walk for the first time , using the specialist equipment . Opening this permanent home for the charity ’s activities will allow it to offer schemes not only in school holidays but year round , and would give the centre the scope to open up its facilities for other organisations to use , including schools . Gympanzees has already raised more than half of its £ 8 million target to fit out the facility . I have previously written to Ministers asking them to consider contributing to the funding of this centre as a pilot facility — a model that could be rolled out across other regions to help to inform provision in and provide training for our schools . I ask them to look again at the huge benefits this project could bring for children with complex needs and the potential it has to deliver access to PE for children who currently miss out . I thank my hon . Friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) for securing this debate . She made some fantastic and profound points in her speech . Like the hon . Member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , I will focus on disability sports . In schools across the country , three in four disabled children do not take part in PE regularly , and four in 10 confide that they would like to take part in more sport if it was offered . We should not underestimate the impact this has on these children , with disabled children already facing exclusion and 72 % of them reporting feeling lonely . I know this from my own experience , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have not played sports since I was 13 . I had an accident in year 8 where I shattered my hip ; I did not walk for four years , and then had a hip replacement in sixth form . A challenge a lot of children who are disabled face in similar situations is that playing football and other sports is how children often build common bonds with their friends ; it is what they do together and what they talk about . Being excluded from that has far wider repercussions . This has been a big priority for me in my constituency . I pay tribute today to the work of ParalympicsGB , the Youth Sport Trust and others ; they really recognise this and are doing lots of important local work to improve it . We have some fantastic projects and organisations in Beckenham and Penge that are using their own initiative to increase the participation of disabled people in sport . In Crystal Palace , the National Sports Centre is undergoing a multimillion - pound refurbishment to secure its facilities for future use and , crucially , to make them accessible . I think 19 world records have been set in Crystal Palace , but wheelchair users currently can not get to the pools and a lot of the other facilities . As Members will know , this issue is close to my heart , and I am proud that this facility in my constituency will be made fully accessible and will be one of the best facilities not just in London but across the country for disabled sport going forward . I want to put on the record my thanks to Sir Sadiq Khan , the team at the Greater London Authority , including project manager Ben Woods , and Councillors Ruth McGregor and Ryan Thompson , and to the Crystal Palace Sports Partnership , with John Powell and Fran Bernstein , who have really brought people together and made this happen . Crystal Palace football club and the charity Palace for Life Foundation do genuinely incredible work right across south London , including at the National Sports Centre , to support disabled people and others . As part of this work , the foundation hosts football sessions for those with Down ’s syndrome and visual impairments , as well as powerchair football . One of the points that I often try to make to people is that , of all the protected characteristics defined by the Equality Act 2010 , disability is by far the most diverse . We also talk of specific disabilities , such as autism and cerebral palsy , as having spectrums . The challenge for disabled sport is really comprehensive , but we have experts by experience — people with disabilities who understand how best to bridge that gap and make inclusion possible . It is fantastic that the Schools Minister has recognised this . I know that she has spoken about the need for increased PE in schools for disabled children . If I speak to some of the local schools in my constituency , I am told that having other facilities outside school is absolutely essential . It would be remiss of me not also to mention Kent County Cricket Club in Beckenham , which , alongside managing two disability teams , runs a regular Friday night disability cricket session in Beckenham for children and young people . It has been fantastic to see a renewed focus on access to disability sport both in Government and in my local community , especially following the Paralympics . Increasing access to PE and sport is not something that will happen if we sit back and wait for it . Inclusion is not just an absence of exclusion , and achieving equity will require an active effort from all to get involved . I again thank my hon . Friend the Member for Stafford for securing this debate .