I beg to move , That this House has considered the International Investment Summit . I am delighted to open this debate on the Government ’s inaugural international investment summit , which we hosted at the Guildhall in London on Monday . Leaders of the world ’s biggest companies , from Alphabet and BlackRock to Goldman Sachs and Novo Nordisk , came from all corners of the globe to meet Government Ministers and to listen to what our new Government had to say . Our message at the summit was clear : the UK is open for business once again . We have turned the page on the stagnation and instability of the previous Government , and in just over 100 days , this Government have put growth front and centre of our agenda and reassured investors that we will create the very best conditions for them to invest and to grow their businesses , restoring the economic stability and confidence for which businesses have been crying out for too long . The Prime Minister and the Chancellor made it clear that the UK has an enormous amount to offer , as did all the high - profile investors who spoke at the summit , including esteemed business figures such as Larry Fink , Eric Swartz , Ruth Porat and more . We have made clear our commitment to growth and restored economic stability , and we have given businesses the confidence that they need for the long term . Businesses are safe in the knowledge that the UK at last has a Government whose central mission is to grow the economy and stimulate private investment , thereby ending the chaos and churn of the last 14 years . As both the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have set out , increasing investment into the UK is the Government ’s No . 1 priority to drive growth . Our mission - driven approach allows us to think in terms of years , not weeks , and to commit to the hard yards required to break down the silos that have too often prevented effective government and got in the way of real growth - driving change . This is about ambitious policymaking for the long term , not sticking - plaster politics . As the Chancellor said earlier this week : “ If the challenge is growth , investment is the solution . ” I am delighted to say that , as a result of the stability dividend introduced by this Government , we announced a record - breaking £ 63 billion of shovel - ready investments across the country — more than at any previous summit , and more than double the total of last year ’s summit — from global companies such as Eli Lilly , ServiceNow , Holtec and many others .