Thank you , Madame Deputy Speaker , for inviting me to speak . Like many colleagues , I stood on the banks of my local river , the River Trent , during the general election campaign , and looking out over the murky waters , I promised residents that the next Government would change a broken system . This broken system has enabled our water quality to drop to the point where only 14 % of rivers and lakes in England have a good ecological status , according to the Environment Agency . Since being elected , hundreds of residents of Rushcliffe have contacted me to say they are concerned about our broken water and sewerage system , describing it as symptomatic of a broken Britain . I am therefore pleased that today ’s Bill marks the start of a significant turnaround process for the health of our nation ’s water . Local to Rushcliffe , the data has been consistently going in the wrong direction . There were 471 sewage dumps in my constituency in 2022 , and this more than doubled to 958 sewage dumps in 2023 . The absolute number of sewage dumps is of course a crude indicator , but , sadly , the cumulative impact has also grown from 3,733 hours in 2022 to 10,774 hours in 2023 . The direct impact on Rushcliffe residents is palpable , especially in villages such as East Leake that are susceptible to flooding , which frequently includes rural sewage . I welcome the works that Severn Trent is starting to take by upgrading a nearby treatment works , doubling processing capacity by the end of March 2025 . However , for many residents this investment is far too late and should have been made years ago , in an era when water companies were creaming off profits and failing to act as true and honest custodians of the national water network . To that end , I encourage the Secretary of State and his team to think carefully about who we want to be the future custodians of our water network . If water and sewage companies go under , I believe we — the state — should always be prepared to step in to offer a genuine public alternative to hedge funds and the like . As with rail and energy , we should be prepared to start a process whereby the state once again offers to play a more active role in running basic universal services , challenging private sector organisations that have happily paid out dividends while allowing 3 billion litres of water every day to be lost through leaky pipes . Fundamentally , I believe it is the right of each and every one of us to be able to enjoy our beautiful rivers , lakes and seas without the fear of getting sick . So on behalf of my constituents in Rushcliffe , I welcome the many positive measures in this Bill as it seeks to enhance enforcement powers and to start cleaning up our water for good . Moving forwards , there should be no more sticking plaster fixes , because , quite frankly , the very least that my constituents deserve is a water and sewage system fit for the 21st century .