Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulations on your new role . I also congratulate the hon . Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , with whom I worked before we both came to this Chamber , through UK100 and elsewhere , on local climate action , which I will speak much about today . I also congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . It means a great deal to me to make my maiden speech during a debate in which the new Government are setting out green energy policies and plans to get us back on track with our climate pledges here at home , so that we can once again contribute on the international stage towards collective global action . Closer to home , Government research shows that local climate action would achieve net zero for half the cost of the national approach and deliver three times the financial returns , but we need a clear framework between the national and the local and for how councils fit into the national plan for net zero , including community energy initiatives . Let me say how proud and humbled I am by the faith the residents of beautiful South Cambridgeshire have put in me . They wanted change , and this was a truly historic result . The Liberal Democrats won all three Cambridgeshire seats , turning them from blue to yellow for the first time , forming a golden ring around the constituency of the Minister of State , Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) . I congratulate him on his appointment as the Minister for farming . We have a golden ring , or rather a golden doughnut with red jam in the middle , and it is thanks to family , friends and activists , many of them here today , that that happened . I am a lass from Hull , whose dad was a GP and mum a nurse . From an early age , I accompanied my dad on his home visits to patients , and it was those roots in the NHS that fostered in me a deep sense of community service , as well as an insight into the links between inequality , child poverty and poor health outcomes . That is why I am proud that the Liberal Democrats put the NHS and social care at the forefront of our campaign , after years of Conservative chaos and neglect left the NHS on its knees . I will continue to campaign to get fairer funding for our GPs in Cambridgeshire , because the unfair funding formula in Cambridgeshire is leaving GPs struggling to keep their heads above water . Inequality was a cruel determinant in the covid pandemic and led to many avoidable deaths . South Cambridgeshire helped avoid more . It was here that the quick deciphering of the covid virus ’s genetic code allowed for the vaccines to be developed straightaway . That partly explains why they were available in record time . The researchers then continued to detect the variants as they emerged . It was truly lifesaving . That is part of the reason why semi - rural South Cambridgeshire is fast changing . It is now home to world - leading innovation , with Europe ’s largest biomedical centre and the Wellcome Genome Campus , as well as more than 8,000 start - ups and businesses , most of which are small or medium - sized enterprises . Our world - leading tech and life science sectors are among the biggest contributors to the country ’s economy , and I invite the Government to recognise that . They are the goose that lays the golden egg , which is why their future needs to be shaped carefully with and through the local authorities , giving local people a voice and tackling affordable housing , the water supply , transport and grid infrastructure gaps in a way that allows communities , businesses and nature to thrive . That is why I would like to pay my respects to my predecessor , Anthony Browne , who worked hard to raise those issues . He supported the calls on Government to tackle the water crisis , and I look forward to continuing his work supporting the campaigns for the new cancer and children ’s hospitals , too . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , Heidi Allen , who is still remembered fondly by many residents . Sadly , Heidi stood down from politics as a result of the abuse that many MPs — mainly women — face . In her words , “ Of course public scrutiny is to be expected , but lines are all too often regularly crossed and the effect is utterly dehumanising . ” Heidi had become an MP to stand up for the vulnerable and for those who have no voice . Now , more than ever , I want to continue their work by helping to ensure that there is a positive and inclusive vision for all in South Cambridgeshire where no one is left behind . It is distressing that 15 % of children in my constituency are living in poverty , with increasing numbers dependent on food banks and free school meals , isolated in villages with no public transport . This inclusive vision must include our unique and precious chalk streams that connect us — our blue veins ; the silvery threads weaving together our villages . We have the Granta that twinkles through Stapleford , Linton and Balsham ; the River Shep that starts in Fowlmere nature reserve and flows through Shepreth and Barrington villages ; the River Rhee that flows through Haslingfield and Harston ; the Mel that rises in Melbourn and flows through Meldreth ; and the Fulbourn and Wilbraham chalk streams . Residents are rightly outraged at the dumping of raw sewage in these streams and rivers . I urge the Government to get tougher with the water companies . Together with the Government , I will champion breathing new life into the Chalk Streams ( Protections ) Bill . I have worked professionally for many years with Governments around the world to integrate climate and nature into growth plans , mediating agreements where benefits can flow to local communities . What motivates me most is how young people see their future . A recent study on young people found that too many had climate anxiety . Their most used words were fear , anger , frustration and worry . There were two main reasons why they felt this way : first , they did not think that decision makers listened to them ; and , secondly , they thought that decision makers did not care or take the right decisions for their future . I have met many young people in South Cambridgeshire who feel this way , and they want action on the twin climate and nature emergencies . I speak to them now : I want what we do in this Chamber to restore your faith and give you agency , so that together we can be the change that we want . I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate hon . Members on discharging their responsibilities and delivering their maiden speeches , particularly my hon . Friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I am sure he will correct my pronunciation and give me some honest feedback . I also welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . Friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , to the Front Bench . It is timely that I am making my maiden speech on a day when we are discussing how Scotland might shape the energy needs of these islands for many decades to come . I thank and pay tribute to my predecessor , Chris Stephens , for his dedicated service to our community over the last nine years . His commitment to social justice and workers ’ rights is inspirational and will leave a lasting impact . I am particularly thankful for his advice and counsel during the handover process that is currently taking place . Glasgow South West is a synthesis of many different communities , each with recurring contributions to the 850 - year - old second city of empire . If you will allow me , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will give the House a short synopsis of the place where I live , work and play . We start in Darnley , Deaconsbank and Pollok , much of it occupying the old Pollok estate , the laird of which — Sir John Stirling - Maxwell — was a Member of this place and founded the National Trust for Scotland in 1931 . In more recent times , these areas have demonstrated the transformative possibilities of their co - operative spirit through the Rosehill housing co - operative and the Pollok credit union . Moving north , the ruins of Crookston castle come into view . Built by the Stewarts of Darnley in the 1400s , it is the only medieval castle standing in Glasgow , and it is possibly where Mary , Queen of Scots , was betrothed to Lord Darnley . It remains an underutilised community asset , but I commend the friends of Crookston castle for their efforts to bring this space back into the service of the people of Glasgow . A short distance from the castle , the wonderful communities of Mosspark , Dumbreck and Cardonald are nestled around the great expanse of Bellahouston Park , which has played host to numerous music concerts , papal visits and the empire exhibition of 1938 . As we head further north , we come to Ibrox , which is synonymous with Rangers football club . Now , I must stress , Madam Deputy Speaker , that other Glasgow football clubs are available ; my hon . Friends the Members for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) and for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) can take you for a tour around them . Govan is the birthplace of Sir Alex Ferguson , a footballing legend , but also a friend to Members on the Labour Benches ; he has often given wise counsel to my party . It is also the location of the Queen Elizabeth university hospital , formerly known as the Southern General , one of Britain ’s largest hospitals and the place where I honed my skills in surgery and practice as a transplant surgeon . My research leads me to conclude that I am the first transplant surgeon to be elected to this place . Govan ’s shipyard history is , of course , world famous , and the Fairfield Heritage Trust and Govan Workspace have brought that to life . More importantly , it continues to serve the defence of our realm even in the modern day , and to be part of Glasgow South West ’s story ; we have BAE Systems and Thales , alongside fintech and medtech companies such as Barclays and Cohesion Medical , as well as award - winning TV and film companies such as Firecrest Films . We can see the kind of high - quality jobs of the future that can be available to local people . These are the kinds of jobs I want to grow as part of this Labour Government . As we head towards the edge of the constituency , we find the BBC Scotland headquarters . The BBC has an important function in the fabric of our national life , not only in informing , educating and entertaining , but as a beacon of our soft power on the world stage — something I wholeheartedly support . Just as national broadcasting is important , so is the local , and nothing encapsulates that better in Glasgow South West than Sunny Govan radio station . It provides an eclectic mix of music , but also , more importantly , runs sobering stories and is a source of comfort on some of the challenges in our community . We end our Glasgow South West journey in Pollokshields , an area my hon . Friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) knows well . It is a true melting pot of cultures and ideas , and the place where my father ’s one - month road journey from Pakistan ended in April 1963 . He would go on to drive buses in the city , and then black cabs — he is in his 80s and he still does . In the undergrowth of this rich history and potential , however , there are some worrying signals . There is the weariness of working ever faster and longer just to stay still , the anxiety of wondering how secure that work is , and the trepidation at the end of a day of work that you may not be able to pay for the odd treat that makes life worthwhile , or even the essentials . It is against that backdrop that we on the Labour Benches were sent to this place to make the economy work for working people , and to restore the intergenerational covenant — the promise that the lives of the generations after us will be better in every sense than our own . Politics for me is not , therefore , about the indulgent combative tweet , or even the theatrical amendment . It is the about seeing the world through the long lens . It is about having the stamina for diligent analysis , the patience to articulate policy and then , when in power , the discipline to deliver enduring change . That has always been the Labour way . Every Member elected to this place recognises electoin for the singular honour that it truly is , but it also takes a village to be elected to this place . That includes , of course , the tireless staff and activists who are in many ways the DNA of our democracy , but there are also , for all of us , those who shaped our life and now shape our politics . When I reflect back , I think of my parents and my extended family , who , from a cradle in a Govanhill tenement , instilled in me the raw ingredients to do my utmost in every walk of life . I think , too , of my teachers and my mentors , who moulded those ingredients into the art and craft of a widely practised surgical career , and of my wife and children , who keep me connected to the earth and in contact with reality , particularly when it is much needed . Out of all those people , I think of my maternal aunt , Matloob Mohammad , who stands out . She had no children of her own and considered us her children . Like too many in our Labour family , she was taken by glioblastoma — as was my father - in - law , Tony — in 1997 . Her patient journey through our NHS inspired me to become a doctor and then a surgeon . She also , in many ways , inspired my political journey . She quite inadvertently introduced me to this place 29 years ago . After queuing outside , we found ourselves in the Strangers ’ Gallery watching a combative Leader of the Opposition by the name of Tony Blair taking on the then Prime Minister . If she were here today in that Gallery , she could not fail to notice the changes in the make - up of this Parliament reflected back up at her . We have our challenges in modern Britain , but it is important to be unashamedly proud of the fact that we are demonstrably the most successfully ethno - religiously diverse legislature in the world . In these volatile times , I believe the world looks to us in this place , the mother of Parliaments , for guidance , and for the solace that democracy can still deliver . I am confident that it will .