Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate on international investment , the benefits of which will be felt right across all regions of our country . I want to begin by paying tribute to my predecessor , Mark Eastwood . He was a dedicated servant to his previous constituency of Dewsbury . On behalf of myself and our community , I say thank you . Being the Member for the area in which I grew up is truly the honour of my life . I will forever be grateful to the people across Ossett and Denby Dale who put their faith in me to represent the area that I proudly call home . I pay tribute to the Labour members across the constituency , especially stalwart member Robert Gosling , without whom I would not be standing here today . I would also like to take the opportunity to thank my parents for their support , as well as my brother , who has always been there for me during some of the most challenging times . I am delighted that they have travelled from Wakefield to be in the Public Gallery today . Their own commitment to our community in their long careers of public service — working hard and talking straight — are principles that I hope to emulate here . My mum is so committed to the north that this is her first ever trip to London — proof , were it ever needed , that us northerners only come south if somebody makes us . I know many Members have already spoken about the beauty of their patches , but with respect , I must make the case for Ossett and Denby Dale . Driving from Ossett towards the Wakefield rural villages and into Denby Dale , the sky widens and the moors roll out before you . On that drive , when I see the Emley Moor mast appear from the horizon , built taller than the Eiffel tower , I know I am home . It is beautiful , it is Yorkshire and it is the place that made me who I am today . It is not just those moors and views that move me ; it is also the people who call them home . We are people of talent , community and , as good Yorkshire folk say , hard graft . In fact , that beautiful landscape is the fruit of exactly that graft , of that talent . You see it in the pits dug across the countryside that served to fuel and heat our nation . You see it in the fields — ploughed , planted and grazed by countless generations to feed not just Yorkshire but the rest of the country . You see it in the town markets , which have bustled with small traders , craftsmen and local farmers for generations . That landscape is not just the cradle of talent , but a product of it . Each town , each village has its own community , its own culture — all quietly , proudly distinct . As well as hard work , these towns and villages are famous for their culture , their creativity and their heritage — home to brass bands , Morris dancers , maypoles and even a Doctor Who , but most importantly of all , the world ’s greatest rugby league team , Wakefield Trinity . Labour may be a party of the Union , but in West Yorkshire , when it comes to rugby , we watch the proper stuff and as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that is league . We are also home to Yorkshire Sculpture Park , with its Barbara Hepworths and Henry Moores , and the National Coal Mining Museum , which roots us in our proud history . I am enthusiastic — sometimes maybe a little too enthusiastic — that my constituency contains so many wonderful pubs and brewers . We have the ever expanding Ossett Brewery and our famous yearly festival , Ossett Beercart . Just as we work hard and play hard , we also pie hard . Indeed , for over 200 years , the people of Denby Dale have marked special occasions in the only way I think appropriate : by baking enormous pies to feed thousands — some even as long as 40 feet , with nine tonnes of filling and 200 pints of bitter . That history and that culture must be championed . It is Yorkshire culture ; it is our culture . But I refuse to talk about my community only in the past tense — about opportunities we used to have and industries we used to lead . Indeed , I want my successors in this place to be celebrating the creativity and achievements of children being born in my constituency today . Sadly , however , the Social Mobility Commission recently reported that many young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and other post - industrial communities across our nation , face an uphill battle . Growing up in a rural town , I know that feeling all too well : that the place you are from is overlooked — forgotten , even ; that opportunities are few and far between ; and that the only path to success in life is leaving your family , your friends , your home . After briefly living in London in my twenties for work , I remember feeling like the token northerner with the funny accent . I found myself having to speak eloquently so folk down here could actually understand me . The only problem with that was that when I got back home , my friends and family would ask me why I was speaking so posh . It actually made me feel quite lost . Young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and in towns and villages across our country , should not feel like they have to get out to get ahead — and yet so many of them do . To talk solely about what was once possible in our community is to betray those young people . Instead , our politics must be built on their dreams and on their potential : decent , secure jobs with reliable public transport to get them there ; good affordable housing where they can build their families and their future ; high - quality education and skills training ; access to creativity and culture ; aspiration , hope . England is a nation of towns and villages like mine — of community , of culture , of graft . For England to succeed , towns and villages must succeed , and it will be my mission in this place to see that happen .