I thank the shadow Minister for his speech . Mr Speaker , thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to speak . It appears that for once my sense of timing has been impeccable . Having completed 24 years and seven months of service in the Royal Air Force , I have arrived on time , uniquely placed as the only person who could sequence their maiden speech in amongst a debate about military aircraft . Unfortunately , as my hon . Friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) suggested in his riposte to the King ’s Speech , I will not be wearing a silk smoking jacket . It is a life of service to this House that also characterises my predecessor ’s career . A loved politician , John Cryer gave 14 years of service to the constituency of Leyton and Wanstead , and nine years as Member for Hornchurch before that . He is a fine parliamentarian and , more importantly , a fine socialist , like his mother and father before him . His incredible commitment to the parliamentary Labour party as its chair for the past nine years was instrumental in helping us get to where we are today . While he now moves on to the other place , I am certain that his children , and his family ’s legacy , will follow in his footsteps in years to come . This sentiment of service is something that resonates deeply with me . Service is fundamental to who I am , and it is fundamental to the Government and to my commitment to the wonderful constituency of Leyton and Wanstead . I am here because my constituents placed their trust in me , a trust for which I am grateful , and will repay with service and a commitment to ensuring they are represented in this place to the fullest of my abilities . At the centre of my constituency is Leytonstone , at the heart of which is our beloved Whipps Cross hospital . Whipps has served our constituency for 121 years , during which time its NHS staff — quiet professionals — have given selflessly for those in need within our community . Yet this hospital is emblematic of 14 years of failed Tory commitments and lack of investment . Its rebuilding is central to my tenure as an MP . Leytonstone is also a cradle for talent , having been home to notable figures such as my namesake David Bailey and Cartrain , and sports stars Jo Fenn , Andros Townsend and David Beckham . Leytonstone was the home , of RAF pedigree , of Douglas Webb DFM , the front gunner in the famous dam busters raid , and more lately , of James Sjoberg , Officer Commanding 47 Squadron . Leveraging this rich heritage to inspire our youth and give them pathways to success is a personal commitment of mine . Opportunities like these were scarce for young people like me . Creating similar pathways for our youth will be central to my service . Leytonstone is also home to one of the most financially deprived areas in the country , but it is a spirited community that seeks to heal itself . Community leadership from Cann Hall mosque ensures the provision to all local people of a much - needed food bank and a youth group . Similarly , at St Margaret with St Columba , others gather to preserve a sense of community despite their obvious hardships . Community spirit is also strong in South Woodford and Wanstead . If Whipps is the heart of our constituency , Wanstead park is its lungs and the River Roding its veins . Wanstead park is part of our historic Epping forest , which was saved by campaigners such as Octavia Hill , founder of the National Trust , and the spirit of activism and preservation continues in the Wanstead Community Gardeners , the South Woodford Society and the ever popular Wanstead fringe festival . To the south is Leyton , home of Leyton Orient football club . The O ’s and their trust embody the best of our community . From their sacrifices in the pal regiment in the first world war to their work with Waltham Forest Age UK , they support our vulnerable veterans . The club is also proud to celebrate our diverse communities , epitomised by Laurie Cunningham , the club ’s first black player . His legacy continues to inspire , as does the leadership of Omar Beckles in improving representation in football . Such leadership is reflective of the club ’s leadership in the establishment of governance for our footballing world . Efforts such as these are key to me . Visible role models and leadership are essential for diverse communities . Without these inspirational characters , young black people like me will not see themselves in places of power . I reflect on the very low number of black men in our politics , despite an increase in representation across all ethnic groups . Addressing this is key to fixing the inequalities that face young people , particularly in the area of knife crime . A pivotal moment in my upbringing was the murder of Stephen Lawrence . While we are aware of the continuing failure to provide justice to my friend Stuart ’s family , we all know of the institutional failings that have led to this . I want to point all Members to a number of things surrounding this that were formative for me . First , the absence of representation inhibits our ability to hear voices and understand the challenges faced by others like us . I reflected during the campaign that when I was young I carried a knife , not because I wished to attack anyone , but because I was scared and felt that the fate that had befallen my friend ’s brother could happen to me and others like me . Mistakenly , I assumed that I could look after myself similarly , but sadly , we know that is not the case , and that those who carry knives are more likely to be killed themselves . We need people like me to translate those experiences into policy . Secondly , and in some ways most importantly , I look back with great upset and anger on how this matter was politicised by extreme groups . Our anger and upset was channelled by populists who manipulated us for their own political ends . Those voices are present in our House and vocal in our politics , and we must challenge them openly to prevent those actors from fostering anger , hate and division within our communities . I fear it is our greatest threat to democracy , and we must be fundamental in our moderation . We must challenge those behaviours without fear , openly , separating them from the underlying issues . Finally , what saw me through that period in my life , and through a highly decorated flying career in the Royal Air Force , are the two things I value most : first , my friends ; and secondly , my family . My mother and father instilled in me the values and virtues of service and humanity ; my sisters shaped me and helped me to see the world through the eyes of a woman . My friends shepherded me through school , college and university , and through every difficult challenge in my life . But it is my wife who has supported me steadfastly through a military career and grown our wonderful family . I love her deeply and will never be able to thank her enough . The reason I am here is my service not just as a Member of this House but to our nation in the RAF . I have chosen to speak in this debate because as a young engineering student I recall learning of the failings of the Duncan Sandys defence review , which did deep and lasting damage to our aerospace industry and industrial base . Already we have heard voices state that our commitment to this programme is a fallacy , but acceptance of that is merely acceptance of a failure to manage defence programmes and the companies contracted to deliver them . It is not GCAP that is a fallacy , but the way we contract and manage such programmes . Our interaction with defence primes must change . We must encourage risk taking , because without it there is no innovation . We must not allow the customer to set the demand for technologies that the customer itself can not conceive . We must be a Government who better understand science , and we need an industry that is incentivised with accountability . We have the sixth largest defence budget in the world . We must get our money ’s worth , and we must make sure that our money leads to our security and not to excess corporate bonuses . For that reason , the remarks by the Minister for the Armed Forces about the sanctity of the defence review are key . We can not allow defence simply to be bought out of its overspend . This is an exciting programme with two close and valued partners , and the Government ’s defence review is critical to it . I congratulate the hon . Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on his maiden speech . This is my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I must tell you that I arrive in this place fired with enthusiasm — so much so that my Whip has warned me that I need to be careful that that is not how I end up leaving this place : fired , with enthusiasm . I am new woman representing a new constituency : Chester South and Eddisbury . It is without doubt one of the most beautiful , extraordinary and inspiring parts of the United Kingdom , encompassing the southern wards of the great city of Chester , those below the River Dee , and many and varied villages in the heart of Cheshire . Audlem , Bunbury , Wybunbury , Wrenbury , Weaverham , Lache , Handbridge , Christleton and Huntington , Tarporley , Tattenhall , Tarvin , Kelsall , Cuddington , Farndon , Malpas — those are just some of the very special places with which you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and this House are going to become quite familiar in the coming years , I hope . Much of my constituency is rural , which is one reason why I found the King ’s Speech so disappointing . This Government profess an ambition for growth ; if so , it is simply extraordinary that there was no mention of the contribution of farming to our national economy . Food is fundamental : the contribution of the countryside to our country is incalculable , and a Government who are so metropolitan in their outlook that they fail to understand that and reflect it in their agenda are , to use the context of today ’s debate , both missing an opportunity and in need of an education . My constituency is both urban and rural , as is our country . Understanding the importance of both , and the necessary balance between the two , is key to our country ’s future economic and societal success . The joy of my constituency is that it includes a rich range of dynamic village communities and a swathe of one of the greatest historic cities in Europe , the matchless city of Chester . It is a business and tourism hub that faces challenges , of course — from basic connectivity to burdensome business rates — yet boasts many successes , among them the major employers in the Chester business park and the University of Chester , whose business school falls within my constituency and at which no fewer than 27 Commonwealth countries are represented among its staff and students . In the 2023 international barometer survey , the university was named in the top 10 nationally in 20 categories , including a top three placing and four top five category placings . Chester ’s potential is unlimited , and I shall seek to ensure that this Government give it the fullest chance to bloom . There are also fantastic schools in Chester South and Eddisbury , some of which I have already had the pleasure of visiting and many more that I look forward to going to over the coming months . Alongside our excellent state schools , we have two independent schools educating over 1,600 pupils , including nearly 400 students with SEND support who do not have education , health and care plans . Those students will face VAT under the Government ’s current plans — plans that will reduce choice for parents and increase pressure on the state school system , with no clear benefit to any of our young people . Chester South and Eddisbury has much to offer , from the glories of Delamere forest — which welcomes more than 750,000 visitors each year — to the excitement of Oulton Park racetrack and Peckforton castle , the home of civil weddings in England . I say that advisedly , because it was the then owner of Peckforton castle who inspired a former Member of Parliament for the City of Chester to introduce a private Member ’s Bill that became the Marriage Act 1994 . For the first time , that Act allowed civil weddings in this country to take place in venues other than registry offices , including castles , historic houses , hotels and Chester zoo . Some might argue that that single piece of legislation has contributed more to happiness in England than any other legislation of its type . The former Member who introduced that legislation , who I know quite well — in fact , I have known him since I was born — reminds me regularly that his 1994 Act illustrates how , in this place , an ordinary Back Bencher can make a difference . I hope to make a difference in the years to come , not only by badgering the Government about delivering local bus services and improving mobile phone and broadband connectivity , and demanding that they back our farmers and ensure the investment and infrastructure our villages and city need to thrive , but perhaps by introducing legislation of my own in the fullness of time . I draw inspiration from my constituency and from my predecessors : not only my father , who was the Member for City of Chester in the 1990s — Mr Speaker will know both how marvellous and , sometimes , how irritating it can be to have a parent who was themselves a Member — but the newly elected hon . Member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , who sits on the Government Benches and who previously represented the City of Chester . I look forward to working with her on matters of mutual benefit to our constituents . I particularly share with my predecessor in Eddisbury , Edward Timpson , his inspiring passion for education and his concern for the care and development of young people . Another of my distinguished predecessors from whom I have learned is Stephen O’Brien . In his maiden speech a quarter of a century ago , he said something that I , as someone who served in the civil service for more than a decade and went on to run a small business , can wholeheartedly echo as I visit the many small and medium - sized businesses in my constituency : “ The prosperity of those businesses is primarily dependent on less government , less tax , less interference and , above all , a release from the stranglehold of regulations , choking as they do a business ’s ability to compete and an entrepreneur ’s incentive to take the risk”.—[Official Report , 28 October 1999 ; Vol . 336 , c. 1159 . ] With such a constituency and such predecessors , I know that I stand on the shoulders of giants , with much to do and prove . The House of Commons Library , which I have to say I am already finding invaluable , has advised me that I am the first Member of Parliament in its entire history to have the forename Aphra . I am named after Aphra Behn , the 17th - century playwright , poet and author , who was the first British woman to earn her living as a writer . The great 20th - century novelist Virginia Woolf said of her : “ All women together ought to let flowers fall upon the tomb of Aphra Behn … for it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds . ” What a privilege it is to be in this place , in the 21st century , able to speak my mind on behalf of my constituents across Chester South and Eddisbury . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allowing me to make my maiden speech today . May I congratulate you on your election ? It is a privilege to follow my hon . Friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) . He spoke about his constituency with eloquence and passion , and I congratulate him on his speech . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Damian Collins , who served as the Member of Parliament for Folkestone and Hythe for the last 14 years . He worked tirelessly here in Parliament , most notably as the Chair of the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which he led for several years up to 2019 . He spearheaded several significant inquiries into pressing issues , including doping in sports , football governance , combating homophobia in sports , tackling online disinformation and examining addictive technologies . As a father of two boys , I am well aware of the parenting challenges that are posed by online gaming and social media , so I know that the work Damian did to hold tech companies to account performed a vital public service , for which we are all grateful . Recognising his expertise and contribution in this area , Damian was appointed the Parliamentary Under - Secretary of State for tech and the digital economy in 2022 , and that appointment followed two Parliamentary Private Secretary roles in the Northern Ireland Office and the Foreign Office . I am sure the whole House will join me in wishing Damian all the best for his future endeavours . I would also like to acknowledge my second predecessor , Michael Howard — Lord Howard — who represented the constituency for some 27 years . He remains a much respected figure locally , and many voters talked of him fondly on the doorsteps during the short campaign . It is the honour of my life to be elected as Folkestone and Hythe ’s Member of Parliament . I thank the members and volunteers of Folkestone and Hythe Labour party who moved heaven and earth to get me elected . Without their efforts , I simply would not be here . I also want to thank my wife and my family , who have been behind me all the way . I have the privilege of being the first Labour MP ever to have represented the constituency since its creation in 1950 . Before that , the constituency covering its approximate area , Hythe , had returned Conservative MPs continuously since 1895 . As a further piece of history , such was the strategic importance of Hythe and the town of New Romney — two ports that were among the original Cinque ports on the south coast — that they have been represented continuously ever since the Simon de Montfort Parliament of 1265 , which is usually regarded as the first Parliament in England . I first visited Folkestone and Hythe in 2007 as a baby barrister sent to Folkestone magistrates court , apparently drawing the short straw . The fee was not much more than the train fare to get there , and the two - hour journey down was bumpy and slow . The upside was that I got fish and chips for lunch , a sea view and a breath of sea air . By the time I moved to Folkestone in 2014 , the high - speed line HS1 had cut the journey time to 53 minutes , and as hon . Members can imagine , the dream of seaside living was no longer a distant thought for many . Folkestone and Hythe today is a cultural hub . We have arts festivals , comedy , theatre , open studios , open gardens , the Folkestone Music Town initiative and live music to suit every taste . The Royal Gurkha regiment is based in the constituency , and we have one of the largest Nepalese communities in the UK . It is hard to beat a Nepalese curry from Folkstone . The constituency has around 20 miles of beautiful coastline , from the border with Dover down to the Kent - Sussex border near Camber . It is little wonder that Folkstone and Hythe is a tourist hotspot , a creative and digital magnet , and a place to find solitude and peace . We also have a large windfarm in Romney Marsh , which was opened by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) in 2009 . It was a privilege to visit it with him earlier this month , following his announcement about dropping the ban on onshore wind . What I love most about Folkstone and Hythe is the strong community spirit , and the drive of so many to make the area the best that it can be . There is Romney Marsh community hub , where the elderly can socialise and access services , and Hythe youth centre supports young people in the area . The New Folkestone Society and the Sandgate Society are safeguarding the heritage of the area , and Napier Friends welcomes , integrates and assimilates refugees who come to our area from all over the world . Sadly , however , far too many people in Folkstone and Hythe are being left behind . Some of the most deprived areas in Kent are in my constituency , and the system has been holding communities back . Opportunities are spread unevenly , sewage pollutes our seas , unaffordable mortgage rates and rents are faced by everyone , and public services just do not work as they are supposed to . Having lived on Folkstone and Hythe ’s coastline , like many residents I have seen overloaded small boats arriving on our shores — boats organised by organised criminal networks that trade and commodify human beings . On too many occasions than I care to remember , I have joined local residents to remember lives lost in the channel . Indeed , as the Home Secretary reminded us , 90 lives have been lost so far this year . I am proud to be a Labour MP supporting this transformative Labour Government who will pass the laws we need to turn Britain around and break down barriers to opportunity . The 35 Bills in the King ’s Speech are just the start of that . As a barrister of 17 years ’ standing , I particularly welcome the Government ’s reinstatement of the rule of law , which is the foundation of our constitution and democracy . The Government ’s decision to treat human smuggling and trafficking as a national security issue is long overdue . I have represented many victims of those criminal gangs , and I know that such are their sophistication and resources , that nothing short of the full force of our national security expertise will do . We must never forget that the victims themselves need justice . I am the son of one of the first Filipinos who migrated to the UK . My mum came here in the 1970s and worked in the NHS , which I think makes me the first person of Filipino heritage to stand in this Chamber . I understand how easy it is for vulnerable people to be exploited by powerful others — Filipinos around the world know that all too well — and we can , and must , break the business model of these sophisticated criminals . For a corner of east Kent that often feels left out and a long way from Westminster , Labour ’s devolution plans represent a rare opportunity . Coastal communities , including those all along the south coast , face similar challenges . East Kent has the second highest level of economic output of Kent ’s five regions , and devolution would open the door to greater powers , and with them a strategy for regional economic growth and solutions to the problems that my constituents face every day with housing , buses , health , skills and work . The strength of Folkestone and Hythe lies in its people . Every person I spoke to during the general election campaign reinforced my belief that there is so much untapped talent and so much that people have to give , and that with an extra helping hand from the Government the potential of every person can finally be realised . To everyone in Folkstone and Hythe , I say this : I stand here ready to help you , whether you voted for me or not , and I promise to use all the energy , expertise and dedication to be your advocate and your voice , wherever it is needed . My parents ’ values of compassion and public service run through everything I do , and those are the values that will today , and every day , guide my actions , my decisions and my work in and across this House . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to address the House , and I congratulate you on your election to the Chair . I am sure that the House will want to join me in extending our deepest sympathies to my hon . Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glyndŵr ( Steve Witherden ) . I am very sorry and sad to learn of the death of his mother . I congratulate him on a wonderful maiden speech , and on speaking with such passion about our children and the potential of the next generation . I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Rob Butler , who I know has great affection for Aylesbury , and who served the constituency with great loyalty and good will . It is a true honour to be here as the new Member of Parliament for Aylesbury . Given that my constituency houses the county town of Buckinghamshire and has returned a long line of Conservative Members to Parliament , as might be expected from that county , I am particularly proud to be here as Aylesbury ’s first ever Labour MP , and its first female MP . My constituency is very diverse geographically ; it covers the rapidly growing town of Aylesbury , many lovely villages , such as Whitchurch , Wing , Cheddington and Edlesborough , historic woodlands and farmlands , and the Chiltern hills . It also has very diverse communities , with people of Christian , Muslim , Hindu and other faiths , and people of Asian , African and Eastern European heritage , living alongside elderly residents and young people whose families have called my constituency home for many generations . We are a historic constituency , too . Britain ’s oldest road , the Ridgeway , crosses through to Ivinghoe Beacon ; the remains of an iron - age hill fort lie beneath Aylesbury town ; and an Aylesbury constituency has existed in some form since 1554 . It was from Aylesbury that John Hampden defended Parliament against Charles I in 1642 , and his statue overlooking Market Square in the town centre still celebrates the parliamentary freedom that he championed . Perhaps I will not dwell for too long on our Conservative - leaning political history from then onwards , but I want to highlight three other ways in which history shapes my brilliant constituency today . First , there is our vibrant culture . Roald Dahl made Buckinghamshire his home , and today we host the Roald Dahl children ’s gallery at Discover Bucks museum . We are the birthplace of the Paralympic movement , and hosted the first competition for people with spinal injuries in Stoke Mandeville back in 1948 . For decades , Aylesbury was home to the iconic Friars nightclub , where acts like Queen and U2 performed . David Bowie ’s first performance of “ Ziggy Stardust ” there is now marked in the town by a bronze sculpture , which bursts into song , catching visitors by surprise . Secondly , my constituency has a history of offering a friendly welcome , including to many evacuees from London in world war two and the exiled Czech Government , who operated out of Old Manor House , between Wingrave and Aston Abbotts . You can still see the bus shelter that the Czech President instructed to be built on that road , having taken pity on the local schoolchildren waiting in the rain . We have seen the same welcome to many people who have moved into the constituency in recent decades , and particularly into the many new housing developments in the area . Thirdly , I want to highlight the inequalities in income and wealth that exist in the constituency . Members of this House may be surprised to hear that Aylesbury has high levels of deprivation . In fact , one in eight children in the town live in poverty , and we have always had a history of people struggling to get by on a low wage in the print and car factories , or as agricultural labourers . I pay tribute to the local food banks and to fantastic charities like Youth Concern and Aylesbury Homeless Action Group , which make life more manageable for those who are struggling most today , but they should not have to exist . That takes me to the four points that I will prioritise as the Member for Aylesbury , and to the reason why I wanted to speak in today ’s debate on education and opportunity . Above all , I want my constituents to feel a sense of opportunity and optimism again . First , I will focus on the desperate need to improve healthcare . We are home to Stoke Mandeville hospital , where my son was born , and its internationally renowned spinal injuries unit . I have the deepest respect for everyone who works in the healthcare sector across the constituency , but we have to make it possible for people to get basic healthcare and to see their GP again , and we have to tackle the awful and pervasive mental health crisis in my constituency and across the country . One of my most brilliant and best friends , Sophie Middlemiss , is not here to witness this moment of great change and opportunity for our country , because she took her own life when her little girl was 10 weeks old . I do not want anyone to suffer from post - natal depression and anxiety in the way that she did , and I will fight to get better help for people in her situation . Secondly , I will focus on education for our children , and I will fight to ensure that all children , whatever their background and circumstances , get the opportunities that they deserve in life . I am particularly concerned about SEND children — I am pleased to have heard a lot about that in the House today — and their parents , families , carers and teachers , who are not getting anything like the support they deserve . That has to change . Thirdly , I will help our businesses to thrive . I will support the small businesses that I hope will be part of a revival of Aylesbury town centre . We have to make it a safe and attractive place to spend time again , and we have to make it possible to get in , across and out of town without spending hours in traffic . I will also support the farming businesses in the rural parts of our constituency , within a wider , careful approach to protecting and managing our nature - rich and agricultural lands . Finally , I come to this job conscious not just of the challenges and the opportunities for my constituency and my country , but of the very challenging moment that we are in globally . Before coming to Parliament I was leading a humanitarian aid agency , and I will continue to be a voice for , and do right by , the most vulnerable people around the world . There are record numbers of people caught up in conflict and crisis , at a time when geopolitical rivalry is on the rise and the global institutions set up after world war two no longer offer the protections that they used to . A strong and principled Britain can make a real difference in the world , and I know this matters to my constituents , most pressingly in their concerns about the awful suffering in Gaza and the suffering of the Israeli hostages and their families . Let me conclude with one final point . I mentioned that Aylesbury is home to the Roald Dahl Children ’s Gallery , so I will end with some inspiration from Matilda , perhaps Roald Dahl ’s finest character — certainly that is my daughter ’s view . Matilda said : “ Having power is not nearly as important as what you choose to do with it . ” Every day , in this place of power , we all make choices . I will know if I have made the right choices if people in crisis around the world and , most importantly , people struggling in my constituency tell me that I have played my part in making a positive difference to their lives . Thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to make my first speech in this place today and in a debate on education , a subject that is very important to me . As this is my first contribution , I ought to start by thanking the people of North West Cambridgeshire for electing me to represent them in this House . I congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) on her maiden speech , as well as all the others we have heard today , particularly my hon . Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glyndŵr ( Steve Witherden ) , whose speech was very moving ; I am sorry to hear of his loss . I have thoroughly enjoyed hearing maiden speeches from Members on all sides of the House over the past few days , and I am honoured to be part of a clearly very eloquent and passionate intake of new MPs . I look forward to the debates that we will have over the coming years . My constituency of North West Cambridgeshire has not had a new Member of Parliament in many years , as my predecessor , Shailesh Vara , was elected to represent it in 2005 , when I was only three years old . Over that time , he made significant contributions to the work of this House , for example , through campaigning to broaden the age of routine breast cancer screening and , on a local level , fighting for new infrastructure to support residents as new developments continue to come forward across the constituency . He was very kind to me over the election campaign , which was fought fairly and cleanly , and I wish him well for the future . North West Cambridgeshire is a constituency with an enormous variation of different communities . It has a large urban section in those parts of Peterborough south of the River Nene , such as Fletton , Woodston and Stanground , as well as new areas , such as the Hamptons , which continue to develop . That urban section also contains the former villages of Orton Waterville and Orton Longueville , which grew into one another and expanded when Peterborough was designated as a new town . Despite that growth , the village atmosphere of those areas has been beautifully retained . My constituency also has a number of semi - urban towns , with Yaxley being the largest and joined by others such as Ramsey . And it has a large number of smaller villages — far too many for me to name now — but I look forward to holding constituency surgeries in as many as possible and engaging with their rich histories as I work to represent and support their communities . North West Cambridgeshire has a very strong military tradition , with one in 20 of my constituents reporting in the 2021 census as having previously served in the armed forces . I am proud to have within my constituency the grounds of RAF Wittering , a station that was extremely active during the Battle of Britain in the second world war . I look forward to playing my part to support the causes of those personnel actively serving , as well as the veterans I now represent . Continuing on the theme of the communities across North West Cambridgeshire , it would be remiss of me not to pay tribute to the large farming community that I now represent . I was pleased to meet representatives of that community during the campaign and am thoroughly looking forward to continuing that engagement now . A large proportion of the land in my constituency is used for farming and that plays a significant role in providing food for our country . Our farmers face numerous challenges , from the impact of rural crime to the effects of climate change on crops and livestock , and I am committed to advocating for farmers ’ needs and supporting sustainable practices . I will be taking part in the National Farmers ’ Union ’s new fellowship programme for Members of Parliament to strengthen their knowledge and understanding of the farming industry and the problems it faces , and would strongly encourage other colleagues to do so too . Now , if I may turn to the subject of today ’s debate , as I am the youngest Member of this Parliament—[Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] I thank Members — it will not surprise many Members to hear that I have not been out of the education system for that long . Indeed , I was in the first cohort of students whose A - level exams were cancelled during the pandemic . In many ways , it was that experience that politicised me . I grew up in a deprived rural area and was concerned from a young age to see a progressive decline in local high streets , alongside growing problems in public services , notably within schools . When I was in my final year at a rural school , budget cuts forced the closure of its sixth form , leaving me and many others having to find alternative provision at short notice , which was not easy for many , who faced very long journeys indeed to the nearest alternatives . The closure not only disrupted education but fragmented the community , as students were scattered to different institutions , but I never connected those issues to politics and the decisions being made in this place until I saw the direct impact of those decisions on schools during the pandemic . The response to the crisis , the decisions about exams , and the support , or lack thereof , provided to students made it clear to a great many previously disengaged young people that political choices have real and immediate consequences . We have to work across this House to improve engagement with our democracy , and a large part of that must revolve around rebuilding trust in politics , and getting to a position where we disagree respectfully and work together to make life better for the people we represent . My background is in science — biology in particular — and that has instilled in me the importance of having solid evidence behind the decisions that we make here . We saw during the pandemic that communicating the rationale behind decisions taken by the Government was very difficult , which highlights why there is such a need to improve how we teach science in schools , and I will champion that . I intend to use my direct experience of the problems in our schools to contribute to the Government ’s agenda to revitalise them . Going further , we must deliver a robust skills system as part of facilitating lifelong learning as we seek to break down the barriers to opportunity , as our manifesto outlined . On that front , I pay heed to Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough . While just outside the boundaries of my constituency , it is delivering a huge amount for residents in the communities I represent , as , prior to its delivery , Peterborough was the largest city in our country that lacked a university , as I understand it . I am proud that a Labour combined authority has made expansion and development of that university a real priority , and I look forward to championing that cause in this place . That is a real example of how devolution works . Having served as a councillor and council cabinet member , I hope to be an ally and champion of local government and the insight that councillors and other locally elected representatives have into local communities . I have highlighted just some of the issues that my constituents in North West Cambridgeshire face , but of course there are so many more that I do not have time to go into . A lack of affordable housing . Insufficient and unreliable public transport . The dental desert that we face in Peterborough , with no adult dental clinics accepting new patients , and people having to travel as far as Stevenage and Kettering . The list goes on , but I will end this speech by reaffirming my commitment to doing all that I can to address these issues , both in my constituency and more broadly , through delivering with colleagues the change that we were elected to bring . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on taking your place . I also congratulate all the Members who have made such eloquent maiden speeches this afternoon , particularly my hon . Friends the Members for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Montgomeryshire and Glyndŵr ( Steve Witherden)—please accept my sincere condolences for the loss of your mother . I am grateful to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech . It is an honour to stand here as the new representative for Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I thank every person who put their faith in me at the election . The people of Paisley and Renfrewshire South have voted decisively for real change and a Government in their service , and that is what we will deliver . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the staff of this House for the professionalism and kindness that they have shown to every one of us who is a new MP . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mhairi Black . It can not have been easy for Mhairi to enter this House as the youngest MP of her time , with the country ’s press hanging on her every word . I followed her career with interest and , while we disagree profoundly on how we get there , I have no doubt at all that her desire has always been for a fairer and more equitable country . I wish her well in all her new endeavours , particularly her upcoming debut at the Edinburgh Fringe — though she may need to encourage her colleagues in the Scottish Government to settle their now annual pay dispute with the local government workforce if she is to avoid stepping over the city ’s rubbish to get there . I also pay tribute to my hon . Friend the Member for Lothian East ( Mr Alexander ) , who served my constituents in Paisley and Renfrewshire South with distinction as their MP for 18 years , between 1997 and 2015 , before being returned to this House again this year . The help and support that he provided to so many across my constituency was mentioned frequently and fondly at many of the doors on which I knocked during the election campaign . That he has already been appointed as a Minister of State in the Department for Business and Trade in this Government is testament to the talent and experience he brings to our Benches . Both Mhairi and Douglas leave large shoes for me to fill . I am just glad that that is a metaphor rather than a physical requirement , because it might have been a challenge that eluded me . Madam Deputy Speaker , size is not everything , as I am sure people will appreciate . My constituents did not vote for me on the basis of my height . In the words of one of my constituents when I knocked on their door , “ We are voting for you — you’re not getting any taller . ” But no one in this House should mistake my height or size for the scale of my ambition for my constituency . I am pleased to make my maiden speech in this debate on education and opportunity , because without good education , opportunities are reduced for many and inequalities widen . In doing so , I remember fondly my modern studies teacher , who , almost 30 years ago now , brought a class of working - class kids from the west of Scotland down to London on a bus to show us this mother of all Parliaments and remind us that , whatever our background , this place is as much our place as it is anybody else ’s . His passion and belief in the power of politics to improve people ’s lives gave me the confidence to fight for the values that I believe in , and I will forever be grateful to him for that . My values were shaped by my grandad , Tadeusz Sadowski . He was a Polish migrant who came to Britain and worked down our pits . The loss and trauma that he experienced by the war waged at home led him to seek a better life here and in Scotland . His experiences taught me that no matter their background or birthplace , everyone deserves the opportunity to live a decent life , free from persecution and prejudice . That is why I have spent my entire working life until now in the service of the trade union movement and ordinary working people . My constituency lies on the west of Scotland , covering the southern portion of the Renfrewshire council area . It includes much of Paisley , Scotland ’s largest town , the smaller towns of Johnstone and Linwood , and the beautiful villages of Kilbarchan , Elderslie , Lochwinnoch , Howwood and Brookfield , among several other hamlets and farmland spreading across the rolling Renfrewshire hills . It has a proud and rich industrial history : the mills of Paisley , the carpet factory at Elderslie and the establishment of the first machine tool foundry in the world . While the industries people work in may have changed — many now work in our vital public services and at the nearby Glasgow airport — it remains a place where people work hard and rightly expect to be treated fairly in return . A fair day ’s pay for a fair day ’s work should not be much to ask , but wages have lagged behind costs in recent years . Too many people who are in work have had to claim benefits just to get by , and the number of those claiming unemployment benefits in my constituency is above the Scottish average . For too long , our communities have been failed and forgotten by two Governments — but no more . I am proud of the commitments set out by our new Labour Government to improve people ’s lives , particularly the commitment to a new deal for working people . Making work pay , ending insecure work and extending employment rights will make a huge difference not just to people ’s pockets but to the quality of their lives . They will be the biggest transformation of workers ’ rights in generations , restoring dignity to work and preparing people for the changing world of work . My constituents have never been afraid of standing up for what they believe in , and neither have I. We are , after all , the birthplace of William Wallace . It is our persistence in the pursuit of equality , opportunity and justice for all that binds us like the threads of the Paisley shawl . It was the spirit of persistence in the pursuit of equality that prompted the early uprising of the weavers who sought recompense for the sma ’ shot thread — an invisible thread without which the Paisley shawl would fall apart . That industrial dispute was won by the workers , whose story lives long in our memory and continues to inspire us today . It is persistence in the pursuit of opportunity that brings my constituents together to provide for others , as exemplified by the brilliant work of Thorn Athletic ; the community bus service launched by Kilbarchan ’s John McBarron , who stepped out of retirement to help fellow residents by filling a hole in local transport provision ; and the West End Growing Grounds Association , which provides raised beds to help grow food and prevent food poverty in the local community . It was persistence in the pursuit of justice that gave us the infamous Paisley snail , which formed the basis of tort law . These are all ordinary people doing extraordinary things , and they are heroes , every one of them . My constituents know that good work should provide not simply the bare necessities that people need to live , but the means by which they enjoy a good life — like our famous poet , Robert Tannahill , who knew how to weave threads and verses alternately . St Mirren football club provides huge enjoyment to many people across the constituency , and I hope that the entire House , including my hon . Friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , whose constituency includes St Mirren ’s arch rivals , Greenock Morton , will send its best wishes to the club as it heads to Iceland tomorrow to face Valur FC in the UEFA conference league second qualifying round — its first European tie since 1987 . I know the value of people being able to send time appreciating the beauty of the natural world . We have the beautiful Gleniffer Braes , with its highland cows , the Clyde Muirshiel regional park , and the tranquillity of the Lochwinnoch RSPB nature reserve , one of the few remaining wetlands in the west of Scotland , where people can watch whooper swans , widgeon , goldeneye and , if they are very lucky , the elaborate displays of the great crested grebe . It would be remiss of me if I did not mention the enrichment provided in everyone ’s life by the pets of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , many of whom I had the pleasure of meeting on the doorstep during the campaign . Let me conclude with this message to the voters of Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I will fight for you every day with every fibre of my being . I will work with everybody in the House who has a genuine desire to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people in our communities , because one person living in poverty is one person too many , and we must work together to do everything in our power to combat that . JFK once said : “ Let us never negotiate out of fear . But let us never fear to negotiate . ” That is the motto to which I held true as a trade union negotiator . We must ensure that we do everything we can to lift people out of poverty and provide good jobs with decent terms and conditions that allow people to thrive , not just survive , because people need bread , but they need roses too . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . May I warmly congratulate you on taking up your position and warmly welcome the Secretary of State and her ministerial team to their positions , too ? I express my deepest condolences to my hon . Friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glyndŵr ( Steve Witherden ) for his loss . I congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) on his sobering and powerful words , and other colleagues across the Chamber on their speeches today . I start by thanking my family for their love and forbearance in recent months , my Labour and other friends for their support , and the people of Rugby and the villages for giving me the honour of representing my constituency , which has been my home for the last 17 years . As the MP representing the only seat with a sport named after it , I hope that the House will indulge me the occasional rugby analogy . The rugby ball has been passed to me , notwithstanding a couple of minor mauls during the election campaign , which I overcame . I want to pay tribute to Mark Pawsey , my predecessor , who ran with the ball — literally and metaphorically — as a member of the Commons and Lords rugby team . Mark is an honourable , decent and kind man who served the House with distinction , worked tirelessly for his constituents and promoted the game of rugby internationally . I also put on record my respect for the former Labour Member Andy King , whose distinguished service continues to inspire me . Rugby is a market town that has grown rapidly in recent years , surrounded by many small villages — too numerous to mention one by one — set in the beautiful Warwickshire countryside . To the north of the constituency is Bulkington , which some say is one of the largest villages in England , although my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) may disagree . Rugby ’s population ballooned when the Oxford canal was constructed in the 1770s , and the railway hastened industrialisation . I say to any Front Benchers listening that being on the west coast main line can very much hasten any ministerial visits that they may or may not want to make . [ Interruption . ] No , stop at Rugby . The confluence of the M1 , the M6 and the M45 near Rugby places us firmly in the logistics golden triangle . Notwithstanding this logistical good fortune , Rugby ’s potential lies primarily with its people . We have been blessed , and still are , by people who innovate , challenge norms and think creatively . Let us take sport : a plaque at Rugby School records that , in 1823 , the legendary local schoolboy William Webb Ellis , “ with a fine disregard for the rules of football , took the ball in his arms and ran with it ” . Although my connection with the game of rugby as a player was , I confess , somewhat underwhelming , I am proud to say that my dad , who is in the Gallery , played for England as a schoolboy . I will not join the House rugby team , but I might join a reformed House rock band . I am acutely aware of how dangerous such statements can be , given that yesterday I wandered innocently into a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group , and wandered out slightly bewildered as vice - chair . As a classically trained violinist and semi - retired rock musician , I am glad to represent a constituency filled to the brim with talented people . I will bang the drum and strum a chord for them . Rugby was the birthplace of the poet Rupert Brooke , whose words “ That there ’s some corner of a foreign field that is forever England ” epitomised a quiet , contemplative English patriotism . We have spawned famous rock bands and musicians , from Spacemen 3 to James Morrison . The creative arts scene is thriving , with fantastic local bands of all genres , an orchestra , dance schools , Rugby theatre for amateur dramatics , galleries and much more . The sporting scene is vibrant , with several rugby football and football teams , and a plethora of clubs in the town and villages , where selfless volunteers offer pretty much every sport to the community . Rugby also has a proud track record of technological innovation . As hon . Members get on a jet plane this week , they should think of Rugby , as the prototype of the first jet engine was built by Sir Frank Whittle at the British Thomson - Houston works in the town in 1937 . At the same site a decade later , a young Hungarian refugee Dennis Gabor invented holography . I live in hope that holographic technology advances so far that , one day , MPs can be beamed into multiple locations , to assist with our busy diaries . Until recently , dozens of giant masts formed part of the world ’s most powerful radio transmitter . In 1927 , the site was instrumental in the first transatlantic telephone call . I believe in maintaining the strongest possible transatlantic alliance , so I am proud that Rugby played its part in deepening the ties between our two great nations . That pioneering industrial and scientific prowess persists . Today , GE Vernova builds world - leading advanced generators , including for Royal Navy vessels . At Ansty Park we have the Manufacturing Technology Centre , the London Electric Vehicle Company — which makes the electric cabs in which many of us newbies may have been moved around in recent days — and FANUC UK . When I visited the MTC recently with my right hon . Friend the Deputy Prime Minister and the West Midlands Mayor , it struck me that in order to unleash potential , we need partnership between business , the education and skills sector , local and national government , trade unions and much more . We met apprentices , beaming with pride at their achievements and in anticipation of a brighter future . We also need investment , most importantly in education . I am therefore delighted that the King ’s Speech includes measures to raise standards in education , reform the apprenticeships levy and establish Skills England . Having visited so many of our excellent state secondary schools and the brilliant local college , I am confident that the people of our area will do the modern - day equivalent of inventing a sport , designing an engine or writing an immortal poem . Rugby is a place that is at ease with itself . We are a very diverse town , and that is unequivocally a huge strength . We learn from one another , celebrate one another ’s traditions , break down barriers and focus on our common interests , something epitomised by the late Dr James Shera MBE , a mentor of mine who is sadly missed across the constituency . Our charitable sector is strong . I will take the liberty of mentioning two local charities that inspire me : the Our Jay Foundation , which installs defibrillators ; and Back and Forth Mens Mental Health , an issue close to my heart . The churches , temples and faith groups are at the heart of our community . The Street Pastors , who I shadowed on a late night shift , show kindness in action — kindness is a much underrated virtue . The people of Rugby and the villages are compassionate . They warmly welcomed refugees from Ukraine . I pay tribute to the thriving Rugby Ukrainian community , its Ukrainian members bravely forging their new lives away from home , and all from the constituency who are helping them . The Benn Partnership ’s “ Meet and Eat ” on Fridays , catered for by recent immigrants who not only cook the food but are learning English there , shows our cohesion . Our community invests in our young people , with fabulous youth centres , such as Hill Street and the Bradby Club . There are too many voluntary groups and organisations for me to mention ; I simply salute them all . We thrive more when we work together and when the Government are truly an enabler . I want to put on record my appreciation as a councillor of the work of council officers and all public servants in serving our community in difficult circumstances . I campaigned to become a Labour candidate using the phrase “ Together we can ” . I believe that is the only approach that will truly unleash the potential of the constituency . We now have a brilliantly led Labour council , a Labour MP and a Labour Government committed to empowering places with a strong vision . I will do all I can to bring together people in this constituency , urban or rural , factory or farm worker , whatever their background , to tackle the problems we face , whether the lack of infrastructure such as GP surgeries , the need for more services at the superb Hospital of St Cross , insufficient affordable and social homes , town centre regeneration or the need to make our streets safer . In doing this , I am inspired by the late , great Ann Clwyd , for whom I worked , and the late , great Frank Field , with whom I worked .