In 2022 , Lubov Chernukhin opened an amusement centre in Hastings town centre known as Owens . The project received more than £ 400,000 of taxpayer money as part of the Conservatives ’ levelling up towns fund plans . Ms Chernukhin has also donated more than £ 200,000 to the Conservative party . Shortly after opening , Owens closed , and earlier this month it was covered in boarding , which now dominates Hastings town centre . Can the Minister advise me how my constituents can get their money back , and how we can ensure that money is never wasted again like that ? I call the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this debate on remembrance and veterans . I congratulate my hon . Friends the Members for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , and the hon . Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , on their excellent contributions . It was an honour to attend the festival of remembrance organised just over a week ago by the Leicester and Leicestershire British Legion at De Montfort hall . That festival was an outstanding tribute to those who have served in the military and those who are currently serving . It paid thanks to our armed forces with some outstanding performances from local musicians and contemporary dancers . However , it is the harrowing accounts of those who experienced the D - day landings that will stay with me . It will be a privilege to be involved in the many remembrance events across the constituency . It is the honour of my life to have been elected to serve as the MP for North West Leicestershire . In that role , I am following Andrew Bridgen , who served the community proudly for 14 years . While we do not share much in terms of our politics , I know that he worked hard for his constituents . While I am referencing former MPs , I have to go back further to our former Labour MP , the late David Taylor , who sadly died in office in 2009 . It will be no surprise to those who knew David that he is fondly remembered today in the constituency . North West Leicestershire is in the heart of the national forest . It is a fast - growing area , with the highest housing growth in Leicestershire and an equally impressive growth in employment opportunities . None of this is surprising , considering our transport links : we have an international airport , East Midlands airport , which includes one of the largest freight operations in the country . However , like so many other areas that have seen massive growth , we have been lagging behind in terms of infrastructure . Local people need to see delivery of our commitment to expand public services , rather than the scaling - back we saw for the past 14 years under the Conservatives . I am proud to be the first female MP in the history of North West Leicestershire . Recently , I had the pleasure of attending the unveiling of the newly refurbished mother and child statue in Coalville . Stuart Warburton , a local historian , has kindly checked for me , and we think that it is the first statue of a lone woman to be installed in the whole of Leicestershire . That award - winning statue , first installed in 1963 , depicts a woman proudly striding forward with her son while holding a shopping bag containing many items linked to the constituency , including a lump of coal , an oil tanker , a yarn bobbin and a dolly . It occurred to me that there is no better way of showcasing our constituency than by considering some of the items in her bag . North West Leicestershire has a rich mining heritage . The coalmining industry has been so important to the development of North West Leicestershire that it is literally gives its name to the main urban centre , Coalville . The coalfields powered Britain , and Kegworth — also in my constituency — is just a stone ’s throw away from the last coal - fired power station in the UK , which closed just a few weeks ago . As is customary in a maiden speech , I will briefly adopt the role of travel agent : I highly recommend that everyone does a tour arranged by the Snibston Heritage Trust in Coalville . Snibston has one of the last remaining examples of above - ground working of the coalmines . We also have many pit wheels dotted across the constituency , reminding us of what previously lay beneath our feet . While in Coalville , visitors can pop into the Belvoir centre to sample the famous Birds Bakery jam tarts . My constituency is home to another character who enjoys sweet things : just a few miles up the road , in the wonderful town of Ashby - de - la - Zouch , we recently had installed a Paddington Bear on a bench . For the thrill seekers , we have Donington Park , home to MotoGP and motorbike racing , and for the heavy metal fans among us , it is also home to Download festival every June . I turn to the oil tanker in the bag . As with our coal heritage , North West Leicestershire ’s fingerprints are all over the rail industry . The oil tanker represents William Stableford ’s wagon works , which delivered a large contract for English and foreign railways . It is perhaps ironic that my constituency has no passenger rail service at all , even though the manufacturer Siemens completed the signalling work for the Elizabeth line from its base in the constituency . One of my major goals in this House is to get the Ivanhoe line back running for passengers . This trainline was originally created in the 1830s by the great industrialist and father of the railways , George Stephenson . Reopening it has the potential to create a beautiful trainline travelling through the greenery of the national forest . The national forest line — now that sounds nice ! North West Leicestershire had other industries , too . It is no secret that Leicestershire has a long history with the British textile industry , hence the yarn bobbin in the bag . H Seal Elastics has been knitting in the constituency since 1898 and currently provides textiles for use in military personal protective equipment — key equipment for our service personnel today . North West Leicestershire was also the home of Palitoy , which produced the dolly in the bag and the action man figurine — a character that seized the day and got stuff done . The contents of a North West Leicestershire shopping bag today would be similar to the contents of everyone ’s shopping bags at home , as the constituency is now home to a selection of food and drink manufacturers . In that shopping bag , there would be a selection of key produce from local farmers , KP Nuts , McVitie ’s biscuits , a Mars bar , Jacob ’s cream crackers , Quality Street , and some of the Mr Freeze ice pops that I enjoyed with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade a few months ago after a tour of the Refresco beverages factory . During my time in this House , I hope to be an action woman — someone who adds to our North West Leicestershire bag with cleaner waterways , better public services for all and , most importantly , an anytime day return ticket on the Ivanhoe line .