Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . May I thank hon . Members who have made their first speeches today for setting the bar so high ? I hope I can live up to the standard that they have set . I am sent to this place by the constituents of Lichfield , a constituency that includes not only the city itself , but the town of Burntwood and around 40 villages and hamlets in the great county of Staffordshire . I am proud to serve the area that has been my home since before I knew to call anywhere home and where I hope it will be for many , many more years to come . My predecessor in this House was Sir Michael Fabricant . He was knighted in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 years representing first the constituency of Mid Staffordshire and then Lichfield in this House . Thirty - two years in total Sir Michael served , and I think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . Should I be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 years ’ time , Madame Deputy Speaker , I can only hope to have such a head of hair . It is , however , to longevity that I wish to turn now . Although I have received advice from some colleagues not to mention the Domesday Book , I can neatly sidestep that as the recorded history of my constituency dates back some 1,000 years before William the Conqueror to the Roman invasion and the establishment of Letocetum , a Roman fort and later settlement near the crossroads of Watling Street and Rykneld Street in my constituency . The crossing of those two roads remained an important place throughout the Roman and Saxon periods , and , in the 7th century , Chad of Mercia established a cathedral and diocese in Lichfield , which still exists today . In just over a week ’s time , I will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — I think — the 58th dean of Lichfield cathedral . The Right Reverend Jan MacFarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the Church in the local community and beyond . The 7th century is also noteworthy for the burying of the Staffordshire hoard , which was uncovered in Hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroads of Watling Street and Rykneld Street . The largest collection of Anglo - Saxon gold ever found , the hoard is already having , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isles , before there was an England , a Scotland , a Wales or a Northern Ireland . Let me move on from the 7th century . Over the coming years , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surrounding area maintained its rural and agrarian aspect for many centuries to come . In this time , the area did produce innumerable great lives , and , while they are far too numerous to mention all of them here , I should note Gregory King , the world ’s first economic statistician ; Elias Ashmole , whose collections founded the Ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the UK ; David Garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician Erasmus Darwin , a founding member of the Lunar Society who had a rather famous grandson ; the poet , Anna Seward ; Thomas Gisborne of Yoxall Lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of William Wilberforce ; the painter John Louis Petit , who is having a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; Frederick Oakeley , who translated the words to “ O Come All Ye Faithful ” in Lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , Samuel Johnson , a man of letters and the author of the first dictionary of the English language . Johnson ’s heir , Samuel Barber , was a freed slave who would go on to run a school in Burntwood , decades before Tom Jenkins would begin teaching in Teviothead in Scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in Lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the UK . Before I move on from some famous people from around the area , I should mention a local success story in Sophie Capewell . Lichfield ’s golden girl brought home not just a gold medal from Paris this year , but a world record as part of Team GBs fantastic efforts . In doing so , she ended my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , Nether Stowe in Lichfield , and although I had hoped to hold that title a little longer than 32 days I am happy to be disappointed on that point . Returning to my historical tour of Lichfield and its surrounding area , we reach the early and mid-19th century , and the town of Burntwood , a conurbation of mining villages , which grew up some four miles from Lichfield and has a similarly proud history . Its most notable resident was the fundraiser and campaigner Stephen Sutton , who raised millions for the Teenage Cancer Trust despite his diagnosis . We lost him far too soon , at the age of just 19 . He was made an MBE for his fundraising , so it is more than fitting that Burntwood town council remembers him through a student award named in his honour . Not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , Burntwood also took its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , St Anne ’s church in Chasetown became the first in the country to have electric lighting . Today , the people of Burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining areas . That is shown by the great examples of the Spark café and Burntwood Be a Friend , which have done so much to step in to replace services cut during 14 long years of Conservative Government . If we are discussing Burntwood , we can not forget the giant - killing exploits of Chasetown FC in the FA cup of 2007 - 08 . At some point , I will forgive the Members for Cardiff . Burntwood is not the only part of my constituency that has a mining history . The village of Handsacre also more than played its part in powering the industry of the 19th and 20th centuries . It is also the village where my old man taught his first lessons as a probationary teacher in the 1970s . As for the suggestion that his Geordie accent was in part responsible for his hiring in a school built to teach the children of new arrivals from the north - east , that remains suspected , if unconfirmed . Mining was not the only industry that found its way to my part of Staffordshire . Many of us will recognise the name Armitage Shanks , but few will know its links to the village of Armitage , just a short trip up Rugeley Road from Handsacre . As the new Government focus their legislative agenda on growth , I remind colleagues that while many of us may have already spent a penny with Armitage Shanks , they are all welcome to visit and spend many more in the coming years . All this industry meant that the canals came to my constituency . The Coventry canal and the Trent and Mersey canal are still navigable today , and the work of the Lichfield and Hatherton Canal Restoration Trust should be commended , as it aims to restore that link as a green and blue way over the coming years . Having touched again on transport , I will complete the circle and return to the crossroads that made Letocetum . Watling Street , or the A5 , as it is now known , and Rykneld Street , the A38 , are major transport arteries that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . The A38 in particular has helped to establish a logistics centre in the village of Fradley on the site of the former RAF Lichfield . Fans of the BBC ’s “ Bargain Hunt ” will know Fradley well , given the regular appearances of Richard Winterton and his auctioneers on that show . I hope that I can get as much airtime as they do . Slightly further up the A38 is the National Memorial Arboretum near Alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . I advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in November but on any day . I am sure that in the coming months the Secretary of State for Transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . On a dissimilar note , the first Travelodge in the UK was opened slightly up the road some 39 years ago , near the village of Barton - under - Needwood , although that village should be much better remembered as the home of the Holland tug of war team . Founded in 1970 , the team has represented England at numerous international tournaments , and even brought home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championships . It is to this constituency that I will return during the recess . I look forward to speaking to my constituents about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plans , and many other issues that are on their lips . I look forward to bringing those stories back to this place , so that I can continue to advocate on my constituents ’ behalf .