Madam Deputy Speaker , it is a genuine honour to address you and the House today . It is a privilege not just to represent the Derbyshire Dales , but even to be there , because it is truly an area of outstanding natural beauty — known to many hon . Members , I am sure , because it is a destination for millions . But its great appeal also presents a problem , particularly for younger people who are looking for housing . The little house building that takes place is more or less matched by the number of properties lost to second homes , holiday lets and Airbnbs . That results in the highest house prices in the region , which puts houses out of the reach of many young people ; they end up moving to other areas to find more affordable housing . That in turn means fewer young families , fewer children , and schools with falling numbers on roll . Small businesses , including farms , pubs and restaurants , suffer as well , as they struggle to get staff due to the lack of affordable accommodation nearby . It is vital that we address this housing crisis . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sarah Dines , who stood up for the farming community in the dales — something that I very much hope to continue . I have had the pleasure of meeting her predecessor , Lord Patrick McLoughlin , who is in the other place , and I hope to benefit from his vast experience of the constituency . The main industries in the dales are , unsurprisingly , tourism , leisure and hospitality , quarrying and agriculture . I am hopeful that the new Government can secure a veterinary agreement with the European Union to give our struggling farmers a boost . I have spent much of my first few weeks in the role speaking to farmers to try to understand what the key issues are for them . Food security in an increasingly unstable world must be a high priority . The dales have great historical significance . According to the Anglo - Saxon chronicles , in the 10th century , the northern kings met Edward the Elder at the Bakewell burh and chose him as father and lord , effectively creating the entity that we call England . Arkwright ’s mill at Cromford is the birthplace of mass production , and of course it was powered by renewable energy . I recently met the Arkwright Society , which is restoring the site for the benefit of future generations and doing a great job . I also recently met Jamie Needle , who has taken on Masson mill , another of Arkwright ’s mills . He is also concerned with the delivery of hydroelectric power from the Derwent — what goes around comes around . Stone from Derbyshire quarries was used in the reconstruction of Parliament in the 19th century , and the founder of modern nursing , Florence Nightingale , lived in the constituency , at the family residence at Lea Hurst . She said : “ Nursing is a progressive art such that to stand still is to go backwards . ” Today ’s health service is barely standing still . We need to reduce the waiting lists , and to get 3 million working - age people back to work as soon as possible . I know from my time as the Mayor of Derby that so much of the good being done daily never makes the headlines ; good deeds do not appear to sell newspapers or attract advertising . But in my few weeks in this role , I have already met some remarkable people and organisations who are making a difference in the constituency and further afield . Aquabox is a Cromford charity with over 80 volunteers who supply clean water solutions to people in disaster zones . Terry Eckersley at River Network provides social housing and a second chance to people in need . Bakewell Youth Theatre has been led and inspired by Sue Stones for 46 years . I appreciate that this is on a different scale , but Chatsworth House , no less , has given invaluable opportunities to children and young people in the area by having a “ takeover ” day at the world - famous stately home . I must mention Ben Woodroffe , our world champion toe wrestler — yes , it ’s a thing . As well as being a great bloke and a champion , he has raised valuable funds for the mental health charity Mind . I hope the days of having a reasonable expectation that one ’s children will do well in life are not over , but they seem at least to be on pause . A lack of housing , a reduction in opportunity due to political decision making , unrestrained social media and a climate crisis mean that my children are entering adulthood with much greater uncertainty than I did . As a foster carer of teenage children for 24 years , I know how tough things are for young people in general , but they are much harder for young people leaving care now than they were just a few years ago . Local authorities are running on fumes , so the support has diminished , and unfortunately the prejudice against care - experienced young people still persists . The new Government must work towards fixing the broken children ’s social care market , address the lack of placement sufficiency , and end the profiteering from vulnerable children that is driving our local authorities to the brink of bankruptcy . I did not even bother to check with the Commons Library , but I am very sure that I am the first former singer of a progressive metal band to be elected to this House . Although my gigging days are behind me , I think , I am extremely pleased that the Labour Government will seek a deal with the EU to help our touring acts , who suffer no end of red tape when trying to get to the continent to ply their trade . The UK music industry has been an enormous success story over many decades and we need to support all of it — not just the multimillion selling acts , but the ones playing to a couple of hundred people , who will hopefully be tomorrow ’s multimillion selling acts . During my campaign , I was struck by the sheer number of constituents whose No . 1 priority for an incoming Government was either the climate or nature , so I feel empowered to say that as influencers and makers of law , we have a duty to think not just in the short term and until the next election , but about those who have not even been born yet , and to leave behind a habitable planet . I was particularly proud to campaign under a banner of public service — service to our constituents and the nation . Country first , party second . We are here not for the status , but for the people who elected us . I will try to keep reminding myself of that . We must deliver on our commitments , but we must also treat the staff here , the staff working in our offices , our colleagues in local government and in the civil service and our constituents with the respect that they deserve . If we can do that , we will move this great bastion of democracy a little closer to the people it serves .