Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . For more than 100 years , since the dawn of universal suffrage , the people of Aldershot and Farnborough have sent Conservative MPs to speak for us in this place , so it is with great pride and even greater humility that I rise to give my maiden speech as the first woman and the first Labour Member of Parliament ever elected by my community . I congratulate everyone on both sides of the House who have made their maiden speeches before me . Let me begin by paying tribute to my predecessor , Leo Docherty , for the seven years of service he gave to my constituency . Mr Docherty served our country in the Scots Guards , as a Member of Parliament and as a Minister of the Crown , and we wish him well for the future . Leo will be remembered as a champion for our armed forces , and I have already learned in my first few weeks as an MP to follow the maxim of the Parachute Regiment , be “ ready for anything ” , including the moment when I was told just a few weeks ago that a tornado — yes , an actual tornado — was landing in my constituency . Whatever strong winds are yet to come , I am truly honoured to represent my home and the place where I am raising my family . Today I repeat the pledge I made to my constituents on the night I was elected : “ No matter how you voted , or whether you voted for me or for anyone at all in the general election , I will dedicate myself to serving you , our neighbours and every corner of our community , in Aldershot , Farnborough , Blackwater , Hawley and Yateley . ” My politics has been shaped by people and place : my volunteering ; community groups ; residents ’ associations ; my church ; and my career working with business and communities , from the co - operative movement to the regeneration of Battersea power station , where I helped build not just the bricks and mortar of a new town centre but a vibrant and diverse community , best represented by Battersea power station community choir , which I founded . These experiences taught me that every voice matters and that listening to one another is the first step to getting stuff done . That is the approach I am trying to bring as our new Member of Parliament , and I know from Danielle , Syfun , Katie and many other residents who have already come to me with housing cases how much we need to bring greater fairness to our private rental sector , so I am looking forward to supporting this Bill in the Lobby tonight . The history of Aldershot and Farnborough is built on service and Great British innovation . We are the home of the British Army and the birthplace of British aviation . Our story began 170 years ago , as our country entered the Crimean war . It was in 1854 that Queen Victoria gave her blessing for the British Army to establish a permanent training camp in a small village on the Hampshire border . The Aldershot garrison town was the first complete military settlement built in the British Isles since the Romans . And Farnborough was transformed too , growing from a small railway town to become the home of the Army ballon factory and the Royal Aircraft Establishment and a hub for military aviation . It was there in 1908 that Samuel Cody piloted the first aeroplane to take flight in Britain . My home continues to deliver cutting - edge technology to this day , with every single Boeing commercial aircraft tested in the Farnborough wind tunnel . Above all , Aldershot and Farnborough have been defined by the men and women who have served and sacrificed in every major conflict that our country has faced . We will always remember them . Today we are also home to the largest Nepalese community in the UK . The Gurkhas have served our country with outstanding bravery over generations , and I look forward to serving them and advocating for them in this place . As well as our military heritage , my community has a rich cultural history . We hosted the Olympic games in 1948 , when events were held in the Aldershot lido , where I now take my daughters swimming . We were the setting for several Bond films , the place where Charlie Chaplin made his stage debut , and where The Beatles gave their first performance in the south of England . We need to shout loudly and proudly about the great things that have happened and continue to happen in our constituency , and that is something I will always try to do . There is Farnborough football club , whose women ’s team are league champions and cup winners after their first ever season , and Aldershot Town — the Shots — who recently became the first football club to receive the Ministry of Defence gold award for upholding the armed forces covenant . There are great charities such as Step By Step , the Grub Hub , Yateley Industries , our Rotary clubs , the Vine Centre , and many more I could mention . They are all making a tremendous difference . And the world still comes to do business at the Farnborough air show every two years . But for everything that is right with our community , I know from countless conversations on the doorsteps that many of my neighbours question whether our best days still lie ahead of us . I take that really seriously . I am ambitious for our towns — these communities that have played such a role in our national endeavour — and I believe that if we can bring people together , we can bring new opportunities to our home , breathe new life into our town centres , and realise our incredible potential . I am ready to play my part in that and hope others will join me . Let me end with a promise , because as I begin my term I have found some inspiration in the work of the Royal Corps of Transport , which was based in Aldershot for many decades . These men and women kept our Army moving across land , air and sea , and their work continues today through the Royal Logistics Corps . They went by the motto “ Nothing without labour ” , and that serves as a reminder to me that everything we discuss in this Chamber , and everything we hope to achieve for our constituencies , begins and ends with hard work — struggle , toil , effort , doing our best . For as long as I have the privilege of representing my home in this place , I can promise that hard work is the very least that my constituents will get from me , every single day .