I rise to give my maiden speech . I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your position and the Transport Secretary and the Front - Bench team on their positions . It is a privilege and a pleasure to follow the maiden speeches that we have just heard , including by the hon . Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , who , along with my hon . Friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , significantly increases the Josh quotient in the House . If I contribute nothing else , I clearly increase the Gideon quotient by the massive number of one new Member of Parliament . I also thank the hon . Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , whose public service has been enduring . He has had my congratulations on that already . Their speeches will be a hard act to follow , but I have the advantage of representing Taunton and Wellington , so it should not be too much of a problem . I give credit to the former Conservative Member for Taunton Deane , Rebecca Pow , who will , I am sure , continue her enthusiasm for gardening and wildlife . She was , of course , a Minister with responsibility for water and for our rivers . I am partial to a dip in the river from time to time , so I was pleased to successfully apply for bathing water status for a stretch of the Tone in Taunton to get the improvement in water quality that we desperately need in our rivers down in Taunton . The River Tone is the silver thread that joins Wellington to Taunton to the levels , close to where the famous cakes were burned near the King Alfred Inn at Burrowbridge . I also pay tribute to the former Liberal Democrat MP Jeremy Browne , the Member of Parliament for Taunton Deane from 2005 to 2015 . He served as a Home Office and a Foreign Office Minister , and remains incredibly well liked in the constituency . He was the first Member to propose a new railway station for Wellington , and I am delighted to have had the Chancellor ’s assurance in the previous debate that that project will go ahead . I am the eighth Liberal to represent Taunton in Parliament since some guy named Disraeli was defeated by the first one in the 1835 general election . Of course , nothing further was heard of him — at least not in Taunton . Taunton ’s parliamentary tradition is very deep - rooted . As a county town with a castle , which today proudly houses the Castle hotel and the superb Museum of Somerset supported by our dynamic town council , its parliamentarians held out in siege after siege . Today , the hard work of so many people in Taunton at the Brewhouse theatre , the Southern Sinfonia , the Bluebirds Theatre Company , the Tacchi - Morris , the Willows and Wetlands visitor centre , the Creative Innovation Centre , Arts Taunton , GoCreate Taunton , groups such as Amici and Voce , and the Bradford Players — I have many more — the Taunton Thespians and the @2 K Theatre ; and in Wellington at the Arts Centre , the Wellesley Theatre , the operatic society , and the Gaumont theatre , which once played host to the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and is now home to the bingo , all comes together to mean that not only do we have a Mecca , but our area is a cultural mecca to which people come from far and wide . Then , of course , there is the magnificent Somerset county ground , graced by the towers of St James and the minster , where I married Caroline just 28 short years ago . I thank her and our children , Emily , Fraser and Fenner and Felix , from the bottom of my heart for their support . Our schools from North Town and Minerva to Bishop Fox ’s , Court Fields , Castle , Pyrland , Selworthy and Monkton Wood feed into our nationally renowned Richard Huish College , Bridgwater & Taunton College and University Centre Somerset , which now offers degrees like nursing , in support of the superb staff at Musgrove Park hospital . Funding is urgently needed for the hospital ’s new maternity unit , because buckets are currently used to catch the rain in the corridors of a building built for the US army — as a temporary building — in 1940 . Similarly , King ’s and Queen ’s , Taunton and Wellington ’s independent schools , make a massive contribution to our area ’s local economy . We also have a successful home education community that inspires an innovative generation of young people . To all our area ’s children , I say : “ Be yourself . If your name is Gideon , for example , there ’s no need to change it to get elected to Parliament . ” That is something I once tried to discuss with the former Member for Tatton . I confess that it has taken me a little time to get to this Chamber — if I had not had to deliver all those bibles to hotels , I would have got here a lot quicker . All those institutions , together with the UK Hydrographic Office , make Taunton the ideal location for new research and innovation entrepreneurs . It is only 104 minutes from Paddington , so they should all come and enjoy the amazing quality of life that we offer . When they come to Taunton , they will find a ticket office at the station that is still working . I was amazed to hear the right hon . Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) apparently still advocating the closure of ticket offices — a policy about which I can say only “ good luck ” . To encourage people to come to Wellington , I look forward to working hard on the Wellington station project that I mentioned earlier . I invite the right hon . Lady the Transport Secretary , and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , to visit the project . On their visit , I hope that they will enjoy a glass of famous Sheppy ’s or Taunton cider — or , to pronounce it correctly for Hansard , zyder — at the Ring of Bells , the Green Dragon or the Pump House in Tonedale , in a Rocket and Bird glass with some Somerdale cheese and perhaps some Bumblee ’s relish , followed by a meal at Guddi and Gikki , Maliha and Taj , the Little Wine Shop or Augustus . They are ideal for planning visits to key organisations in the constituency , like WPA , Pritex or indeed the 40 Commando Royal Marines at Norton Manor camp . I was delighted to support the Royal Marines , with the help of former Royal Marine Paddy Ashdown — raising an ultimately successful petition to gain a U - turn on the previous Government ’s shocking proposal to close down the entire facility . In his maiden speech the other day , my hon . Friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) drew attention to the huge sacrifice that previous generations made so that we are all free to sit in this Chamber today . My service in the Territorial Army was pretty minimal , but my father , FJC “ Jim ” Amos CBE , and my mother , Geraldine Amos MBE , both served in world war two , following their fathers who served in the trenches . I remember discussing it with them all . When I was growing up , hon . Members will not be surprised to hear that the atmosphere and the memories of war loomed large in discussions around meal tables . Is it not that generation ’s courage and bravery , not only in rebuilding Britain but in defeating fascism in the first place , that demand our respect ? They demand that we do everything we can to defend the liberal and democratic values that make this country so great . Their bravery surely also demands that all hon . Members , on both sides of the House , always say no to those who would stir up division , despair and hatred for nothing more than votes , because they have nothing positive to offer people . It is the greatest privilege of my life to serve the residents of Taunton and Wellington — from Hatch Beauchamp , Helland and North Curry in the east to Whiteball , West Buckland , and Sampfords Moor and Arundel in the west ; and from Bishopswood , Churchinford and Stoke St Mary in the south to Pickney , West Monckton and Kingston St Mary in the north — in this House . I am here to do one thing : work for them and stand up for them to those in power whenever that is the right thing to do . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to begin that duty today .