I am grateful to the hon . Lady . Like her , I pay tribute to the big range of providers that play a crucial role in supporting our children ’s early education . That extends to private voluntary providers and childminders , who are a crucial part of the sector . The announcement we are making today on school - based nurseries is designed to deal with many of the challenges that she identifies arising from the childcare deserts left behind by the Conservatives . We also know that school - based providers have a greater share of the market in more deprived areas , and 34 % of those announced today will serve disadvantaged communities . Alongside that , I note that the hon . Lady welcomes the biggest ever uplift that we have secured in the early years pupil premium , which will make a big difference to the life chances of children from more disadvantaged backgrounds . When it comes to the rates , we will always continue to keep those under review . The hon . Lady asks about the charging guidance that has been issued . I believe it is important that parents have greater transparency when it comes to charging and fees , and where they are able to exercise greater choice in what is being offered to them . I believe that is the right approach , not least as we move towards a system in which the vast bulk of childcare is backed by Government . My hon . Friend can be assured that the early adopters breakfast clubs programme , for instance , was just the start of a national roll - out . I , too , am delighted that Ringway is part of the first phase of our school - based nurseries programme , and we are determined to ensure that there is more provision throughout the country . Of those that I have announced today , 34 % will serve communities that experience disadvantage . It is important for us to ensure that all families can take up childcare and early years provision , and it is critical that we deliver those places . Today ’s announcement of £ 37 million of capital investment , including investment in my hon . Friend ’s constituency , will be a crucial part of that .