The Minister shakes his head , but if we have shut down all that capacity — if we can not generate the electricity ourselves — we will have to get it from other places . There are phenomena called wind droughts , which can go on for very long periods . What are we going to do when the wind turbines are not turning and the sun is not shining during a very cold spell in the middle of winter ? We had one or two close scares this winter . The generating margin that we used to enjoy has gone . The great risk of accelerating the decarbonisation of the electricity system is that there will be more appeals for voluntary or compulsory restraint from industry , because industry is the hidden customer that is shut off when we are short of electricity , or we risk more brownouts or even blackouts . That not impossible , so where is the data that the Minister is placing so much confidence in that shows these forecasts to be wrong ? I am not making them off my own bat — there are plenty of people out there making them . That brings me to the final brief point I want to make . I understand the logic that the Minister explained in his letter to me . I absolutely share that ambition , but the question is how quickly we can get there . At the moment , tidal power produces almost nothing as a proportion of our electricity requirement . It is also intermittent , by the way : four times a day , there is a period during which it does not generate anything and we need to replace that supply with other things . The real challenge is how we get to the objective that the hon . Gentleman and I share in a rational way that carries the British public with us . It is noticeable that what people are complaining about most is the price on their electricity bills . Today , the constraint costs , balancing costs , infrastructure costs and import costs that I mentioned make up perhaps 50 % of domestic electricity bills . If that figure is wrong , let the Minister produce some figures of his own that explain what proportion of consumers ’ bills arises from all those factors , because it is not explained . There is no transparency on our electricity bills . On the hon . Gentleman ’s point about the objective of decarbonisation , we are not going to get there at all if we lose the public — if the lights start browning out or going out , and we find that we can not meet demand . To some extent , we are piling up that demand by decarbonising transport and other parts of the system , including decarbonising building heating through heat pumps . The demand for electricity will rise , but our capacity to produce it reliably at all hours and in all conditions is being reduced . On the question of imports and exports , we might become a net exporter of electricity , but perhaps the hon . Gentleman can explain how the price at which we are exporting compares with the price at which we are importing . The difficulty is that we will be importing when the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining , and it is likely that the wind will not be blowing across the entirety of the North sea , so we will be importing fossil fuel - generated power at a very high cost to compensate for the fact that we have got rid of our own gas production and gas - fired power stations . I am not sure that situation will be very good . If the hon . Gentleman would look at the Arup report on the Tarchon interconnector , which will come into my constituency under the present plans , he will see that that interconnector will not actually contribute very much to security of supply , but will be used almost entirely to export when there is too much wind . It will export at below the strike price because there is too much wind and it will export at a loss , and the cost will finish up on the bills of the British consumer . So the British consumer is paying for all the investment , paying for the strike prices , paying for the infrastructure and then paying to subsidise the exports to the Germans , who will be the beneficiaries of all this investment . I appeal to the Minister to just read the Arup report and look at this . That is why I asked about the offshore co - ordination support scheme work that has been done . I am not going to ask for the impossible and ask him to revive the OCSS , but I would like from him an assurance that the work ESO has done will not simply be thrown away and wasted . Please can he assure the House that that work will be incorporated into the spatial plan that ESO says it wants to produce ? Some very interesting innovations came out of that work , but there was also a lot of work discrediting the long - term viability of Norwich to Tilbury and , looking on a different timeframe — in the longer term — that could produce a much more viable alternative than is currently on the table . There is still work to be done on that , but I have no doubt that Fintan Slye will want to do that work as part of his project for the Government . I would like to know that the Minister is going to support the holistic approach to which the Secretary of State referred , because Norwich to Tilbury is certainly not the product of a strategic approach to electricity grid upgrading . We need a much more strategic approach , and I am looking for that from this Government , but it certainly will not come from this Bill .