Certainly we will come into the detail of how this works once it is on the statute book , in the guidance that is issued , but I am making it very clear to the House tonight that the Government wish those few people — the very small number of asylum seekers and refugees who have been convicted of serious sexual offences such that they have been put on the sex offenders register — to be denied refugee status . We will also deny refugee status where we are able to show that an individual has been convicted in a foreign court for a crime that would have fallen under schedule 3 to the 2003 Act if they had been convicted in the UK . Those convicted and made subject to the notification requirements have committed the most serious of sexual offences , which should be included in the definition of a particularly serious crime . I shall move on to the amendments relating to the Immigration Services Commissioner . The Government are seeking new powers for the Immigration Advice Authority to clamp down on malpractice in the provision of immigration advice . Building on clause 40 and schedule 1 , these new measures will extend the powers of the Immigration Services Commissioner to ensure effective , modern regulation and enforcement of immigration advice and services . Government amendment 24 creates the power to amend the definition of “ relevant matters ” for the different types of immigration advice that can be brought in and out of the Immigration Services Commissioner ’s regulatory oversight . It will introduce greater flexibility to keep pace with wider modernisation and transformation of the immigration system . Currently those definitions are in primary legislation , but this amendment moves them into secondary legislation . Government amendment 25 allows for a person ’s registration as a provider of immigration advice or immigration services to be cancelled or suspended with immediate effect where serious concerns are raised regarding their actions or behaviour . Government amendment 26 establishes that persons who have received certain severe disciplinary sanctions can not continue to provide immigration advice under the supervision of a person regulated by the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 — otherwise known as substitution . Government amendment 27 introduces additional sanctions , specifically monetary penalties , and the ability to amend the amount of fines , enhancing the range of tools available to the commissioner to tackle inappropriate or unlawful practice by unregistered advisers and to shore up standards . Monetary penalties may be imposed up to a maximum of £ 15,000 on each regulated organisation that has breached the commissioner ’s codes of standards , obstructed an inspection or failed to comply with regulations . Government amendment 28 provides the Home Secretary with the power to specify a non - exhaustive list of fees that the Immigration Services Commissioner can charge for the exercise of their regulatory functions . Having the ability to charge for services such as competence assessments and training will enable the Immigration Services Commissioner to provide more of those services , helping to drive up competence , capability and capacity in the sector . Finally , Government amendment 29 makes provision to expand the existing complaints scheme to include unregulated advisers and organisations and to create a civil recovery scheme where the Immigration Services Commissioner can order the refund of fees or the repayment of compensation to the victims of poor practice . The final Government amendments relate to serious crime prevention orders and electronic devices . To support operational efficiency , Government amendments 6 to 11 will enable an inspector to authorise a constable to use the powers to access , examine , copy , retain or use information under clauses 20 , 21 and 23 of the Bill . That is thought to be more operationally effective than the current measures in the Bill , which place that authorisation at superintendent level , as I am sure the hon . Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) will remember from our long discourse on these matters in Committee . No . For me , border security sits alongside fixing potholes , tackling graffiti and fly - tipping , and stopping e - scooter and e - bike speeding . It is obviously more complicated — for one thing , it involves a great deal of international negotiation — but border security is security . It is vital for people ’s safety and pride . It underpins so much . If people can not rely on the basics , they can not begin to enjoy everything else that life has to offer . If people can not see pledges being kept , promises being delivered and things being improved where they live , they will not just lose trust ; they will succumb to hopelessness . We must not allow the spirit of our people to break . We must get the basics right , and with the Bill we will do that . We will secure our borders with this Bill and these amendments . We will have new powers on seizing electronic devices , a new law to protect life at sea , a new statutory border security command , tougher action on foreign national sex offenders , and the ending of asylum hotels that cost eye - watering sums . It is in our national interest to get our borders back under control against criminal smuggler gangs . In order to understand the politics of where we are , I have been looking back at old debates , and Conservative Members may enjoy hearing what I am about to say . With our policies and politics on border security , as with much else , I feel that we could benefit from listening to a question that was put by the first Earl of Stockton in his maiden speech in the other place in 1985 . He said : “ Should we just slowly and majestically sink … like a great ship — or shall we make a new determined and united effort … Let us do the latter and then historians of the future will not describe … the decline and fall of Britain but … the beginning of a new and glorious renaissance . ”—[Official Report , House of Lords , 23 January 1985 ; Vol . 459 , c. 254 . ] As the Member of Parliament for Bournemouth East , I want to work with all in this place who share the former Conservative Prime Minister ’s moderation and determination to have a united effort to bring about a better Britain . That involves fixing the basics , such as border security . After all , it would be an absurdity for small boats to sink a bigger ship . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie French Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Katie Lam Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell David Burton - Sampson Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Stella Creasy Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Christian Wakeford