My hon . Friend is absolutely right about the challenges right across our SEND system — a system that the Secretary of State herself has described as “ lose , lose , lose . ” School leaders know that this is a disaster , yet earlier this month the Department updated us all on the work of the workload reduction taskforce . It is not the work of teachers , the taskforce clarifies , to investigate a pupil ’s absence . Teachers may do it — it is vital work that needs doing — but it also depends on our amazing support staff . Labour ’s plan to tackle the attendance crisis starts with our smallest children . It includes a childcare system modernised from the end of parental leave to the end of primary school , high - quality early education , a focus on life chances for children — not just on work choices for parents — and high and rising standards right from the start , with early language interventions to identify and remove barriers to learning , and a determination to reform the SEND system , to put money behind children , not lawyers , and to tackle issues before they hold children back , with a new focus on primary numeracy so that children love maths at six , never mind at 16 — excellence for everyone ; not for some of our children but for all of them . There will be free breakfast clubs in every primary school , because it is about the club , not just the breakfast . Every day , every child , every life and every start . There will be 6,500 new qualified teachers and a new national voice for our support staff . Ofsted will be reformed and improved . We will end the high - stakes , low - information culture , with annual checks for attendance , safeguarding and off - rolling . There will be mental health councillors in our secondary schools and new community hubs outside them , joining up the information that we have on our children so that every child can be supported between schools and services — every issue caught , shared and addressed . And the cause for which we asked for time today ? A law to register and count the children who are out of school . Labour is clear on how we will fund that package and the change that we need : by ending the tax breaks for private schools and the mega - rich . We will invest in what we most believe in : our children and their futures , excellence for everyone , high and rising standards , and a Britain where background is no barrier to opportunity . The legislation that we will introduce next month , with the House ’s permission if today ’s motion is agreed to , will be simple : it will be part 3 of the Government ’s own Schools Bill from 2022 , which provided for a register of children not in school . That is nothing that Conservative Members would not have been prepared to vote for had it been tabled by their own Ministers , so there can be no reason or excuse for Conservative Members who care about this issue not to support the motion today and the Bill next month . They can choose their party or our children . I commend the motion to the House .