Thank you very much , Mr Speaker , for granting the urgent question , but if the rail Minister is not available , you would think that the Secretary of State would be bothered to turn up to the House on an issue of this importance . Here we are yet again : 13 years of gross mismanagement and chaos coming home to roost . First , the Government slashed Northern Powerhouse Rail ; then they binned HS2 to Leeds ; then they announced that the line would terminate at Old Oak Common for years to come ; and now it looks as though they are considering cutting the north of England out in its entirety . If that is true , what are we left with ? We are left with the Tories ’ flagship levelling - up project that reaches neither the north of England , nor central London : the most expensive railway track in the world , which , thanks to terminating in Acton , will mean a longer journey between Birmingham and central London than the one passengers currently enjoy . What started out as a modern infrastructure plan , left by the last Labour Government , linking our largest northern cities will , after 13 years of Tory incompetence , waste and broken promises , have turned into a humiliating Conservative failure ; a great rail betrayal—£45 billion and the least possible economic impact from the original plan , £ 45 billion and the north left with nothing . But frankly , what else would we expect from a Prime Minister who does not travel through the north of England on rail ? He only ever flies over it . Today , communities and businesses do not need yet more speculation and rumour from the heart of this broken Government — they need answers . Will the Minister urgently explain if the photograph leaked last Friday reflects his Government ’s position to slash phase 2 altogether ? Will he confirm the commitment his boss made in this House just a few months ago that high - speed trains will reach Manchester by 2014 ? Are his Government planning for trains to terminate at Old Oak Common for good , detonating the business case and overwhelming the Elizabeth line ? Having run our economy , our public services and our railways into the ground , will the country not now conclude that this is proof , once and for all , that the Tories can never be trusted to run our country again ?