Unlike the hon . Gentleman , I was at the launch of the said report and have read it . He will be aware that , for example , one reason for the complications is that the number of people working from home has increased by 40 % . We have a plan to tackle that with the record investment that is being made to Mayors . He talks about franchising , but it is also the case , without a shadow of a doubt , that he does not have a plan to finance it , particularly for rural local authorities . What is the case is that , when Labour organisations are challenged on this , they struggle to find out how they will deal with the funding . The truth is that there is no plan and they are not putting forward any funding . Individual people who attended that event were genuinely in shock at the shadow Secretary of State ’s suggestion that Labour was going to do this , but was unsure about how it would fund it . With great respect to the hon . Lady , she knows full well that her council attempted to have an active travel scheme in Jesmond , and it so messed it up that it had to scrap the scheme . The LTN was scrapped , and there were 23,000 objections and a considerable waste of money . With due respect , active travel is doing a great job , and we support it , but councils have to take local communities with them . The Chair of the PAC is entirely right , although in the MOD context , if it is groundhog day , “ groundhog ” sounds like a vehicle that has slipped to the right . More recently , after a detailed inquiry , the Defence Committee , on which I serve , published a damning report on 4 February 2024 , entitled simply “ Ready for War ? ” . I have served on the Committee since 2017 and this is one of the punchiest reports we have ever produced . In answer to the question in the title , the all - party Committee , which includes six former MOD Ministers , concluded : “ Despite the United Kingdom spending approximately £ 50 billion a year on defence ( plus more for Ukraine ) the UK ’s Armed Forces require sustained ongoing investment to be able to fight a sustained , high - intensity war , alongside our allies , against a peer adversary . ” In plainer English , and as the subsequent detail in the report starkly points out , despite a considerable outlay of taxpayer ’s cash , we could not fight a sustained war with Putin ’s Russia for more than a couple of months before we ran out of ammunition and fighting equipment , not least as we have very few tanks , ships or combat aircraft in reserve . The full report can be found online . Given that it takes years to build a modern warship — a totally ridiculous 11 years in the case of the new Type 26 frigate — and four years to build a Typhoon fighter , if we had to fight what the strategists sometimes describe as a “ come as you are war ” , one with little further warning , we would have to rely on whatever equipment we had to hand or could rapidly remobilise . We simply do not have enough war - winning kit to win as it is . As the Public Accounts Committee ’s report on the 10 - year equipment plan illustrates starkly , the difference between what the MOD aspires to buy and the funding it is likely to have available is £ 17 billion . However , it is worse because the three services account for the plan on a different basis . Without going into all the technicalities , an apples and apples comparison across the three services shows that the gap is £ 29 billion . Even beyond gaps in capability of our kit , our greatest weakness is now the lack of skilled personnel to operate and maintain the equipment that we do have . Without them — and far too many of them are leaving , as the Chair of the Defence Committee said — even multi - billion dollar aircraft systems simply remain in the hangar . One perfect example of how dysfunctional the MOD has now become in relation to people is the saga of Capita — or , forgive me , “ Crapita ” , as it is now affectionally known to the Defence Committee . It has totally messed up the recruitment system for the British Army . A few years ago , its share price topped £ 4 ; today , it is barely 13 pence . Everyone in Defence knows that the outsourced contract has been a disaster , yet absolutely no one in the upper echelons of the Department has the moral courage to sack the company . The Defence Secretary recently described the situation in The Times as “ ludicrous ” . He is absolutely right . Indeed , no doubt he has made a note of his own comments on his own famous spreadsheet , but still nothing actually happens . Capita limps on as the Army bleeds out — with , in some parts of the Army , three soldiers now leaving for every one that Capita somehow , painfully , manages to recruit . If we think we are going to deter the likes of Vladimir Putin in this manner , we are living on a different planet , in a parallel universe , in a fantasy dimension . Given that we now spend the thick end of £ 50 billion a year on defence , the British taxpaying public are quite entitled to ask why so little of our defence capability works properly . Why are some of the Army ’s fighting vehicles 60 years old ? Why do we have hardly any battle tanks that actually work ? Why do we have hardly any submarines that are now regularly put to sea ? Why do we have aircraft carriers that perennially break down whenever they try to leave port ? Bluntly , it is because we now have a Ministry of Defence that has become in recent years a gigantic , sclerotic bureaucracy ; constantly hidebound by needless , self - generated red tape ; obsessed with process rather than outcomes ; in which some senior civil servants are now more interested in wokery than weaponry , endlessly ripped off by some of their own major contractors , such as Boeing , to name but one ; and in which key elements of our fighting equipment are so old — and the procurement system for replacing them so broken — that we now can not fight a major war with Russia for more than a few weeks , as it well knows . Moreover , as the Red Book clearly shows in tables 2.1 and 2.2 , we are cutting the core UK defence budget next year by £ 2.5 billion and playing “ smoke and mirrors ” with the donations to Ukraine and with addressing an overspend on the nuclear enterprise from the Treasury reserve in order to pretend otherwise . This act of what the Russians call “ maskirovka ” , or strategic deception , is wholly unworthy of a Conservative Government . If Members happen to believe , as I do , that the role of our armed forces is determinedly to save lives by convincing any potential aggressor that , were they to attack us , we would defeat them , then we are palpably failing . This is not an intellectual parlour game . Ultimately , this is about whether our grandchildren are going to grow up in someone else ’s re - education camp , but we might not know that if we walked into the current MOD . We can try to blame the military , for instance , for so frequently over - specifying new military equipment , such as Ajax , that it enters service many years late , but in the end the responsibility lies with the politicians who , theoretically at least , are supposed to be in charge . The Romans had a famous saying about military matters : “ Si vis pacem , para bellum”—he who desires peace save - line3should prepare for war . Given that the Secretary of State , the man who runs the Department , has told us that we are in a pre - war world , surely we had better start preparing for it , if we are to have any chance whatsoever of preventing it , and we should now do that in earnest , before it is too late . I agree with every word my right hon . Friend , the former eminent Chairman of the Defence Committee , just said . My one caveat is that the MOD ’s excuse for these capability gaps is that we can rely on allies to fight with us . But they will be relying on us , and if we are unable to support them or they are on wartime tasks elsewhere , things might go horribly wrong . I say all of this not just as someone who served proudly as a Territorial Army infantry officer in my local Royal Anglian Regiment during the cold war ; not just as someone who is still very proud to carry the late Queen ’s commission ; not just as a former veterans and then Armed Forces Minister in the Ministry of Defence , albeit almost a decade ago ; but most of all , as I said at Prime Minister ’s questions last week , as the devoted son of a D - day veteran . Stoker 1st Class Reginal Francois died when I was 40 years of age . He told me one night of the carnage — his word — that he witnessed that day , albeit from offshore , on a minesweeper named HMS Bressay . In the afternoon , they were opposite Omaha beach . Let me quote Shakespeare ’s famous phrase : “ This story shall the good man teach his son . ” My father was a good man . The story that he told me was of a country that eventually , reluctantly , had to go to war against the evil of Nazi tyranny because for years its politicians had been so parsimonious — he actually said “ tight”—and so naive that when Nazism emerged , we completely failed to deter it . That is the lesson of the 1930s , but it was also his lesson to me . My father made me take a solemn vow that , as his son , I would never take living in a free country for granted , because , as he said , too many good men had died to achieve it . Two years after we had that conversation , he was dead . That is why I am here this afternoon . That is why I came into politics in the first place . As a wartime serviceman , my father was a great admirer of Winston Churchill , our greatest ever Prime Minister , who led this country through a war of national survival and then lost a general election for his trouble . When I walked into the Chamber earlier this afternoon , I could still see the damage caused when the Chamber was bombed in 1941 . Churchill insisted that it not be repaired , lest we forget , and he was right . In summary , I may not be my father ’s contemporary , that famously courageous MP , Leo Amery , so I can not claim to “ speak for England ” on this matter , but I was elected to speak for the people of Rayleigh and Wickford , and so , on their behalf , I issue this stark warning today . The skies are darkening . Brutal dictators with powerful weapons at their disposal are on the rise . The democracies are on the backfoot rather than the front . History tells us time and again , and indeed ad nauseam , that the appeasement of dictators — be they called Adolf Hitler or Vladimir Putin — does not work . We should be increasing the defence budget to at least 3 % of GDP — what my right hon . Friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) used to call “ at least three to keep us free”—not cutting it , as we now are , and pretending that we are not . The first duty of Government , above all others , is the defence of the realm , and we forget that at our peril . Si vis pacem , para bellum .