I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Minister for the Cabinet Office is carefully considering this matter . If the hon . Gentleman would like , the Minister for the Cabinet Office will write to him , but he is considering it . We expect the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to begin making payments to people who are infected under the infected blood compensation scheme by the end of this year . Payments to the affected are expected to begin in 2025 , following a second set of regulations . Turning to a question raised by the hon . Member for Perth and Kinross - shire about the independence of IBCA , it is rightly operationally independent . Parliament would clearly expect the Government to have oversight of a scheme of this size and for there to be proper management , given the amount of public money going into the scheme . It is true that there are only two non - departmental public bodies that are independent of the Government : one is IBCA and the other is the National Audit Office . It is absolutely right for IBCA to have that independence . First , I commend the hon . Gentleman on securing this debate . I spoke to him before it . I have always been a speaker for human rights , as he and the House knows . Whenever I hear stories like the one he has outlined so well , it tells me that there is injustice . The friendship between the UK and UAE does not matter ; this is about justice and doing right when somebody is discriminated against . Does he not agree that the inaction of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office’s — I say that respectfully — in respect of one of our citizens is incredibly concerning ? The fact that Mr Cornelius has served his sentence , only to have the goalposts moved , does not speak of international justice , but injustice . I believe that our Foreign Office has an absolute duty to advocate for this British citizen . I thank my hon . Friend for raising that important point . He has also been vocal in his support for British citizens who have been arbitrarily detained , and on wider human rights issues . I commend him for his work on that agenda . The FCDO point about the toolkit is really important . The difficult question that we have to ask ourselves is : how have we have reached the situation where one of our citizens is languishing in the jail of a friendly country — a close ally — with all the potential damage to UK - UAE relations that that does ? I have huge admiration for the work of the FCDO and its staff , and I know from colleagues and friends around the globe how much its work is appreciated and respected on the world stage . We have many fine diplomats and public servants , but I have to say in all candour that it has been failing for many years in its handling of state hostage taking and arbitrary detention of British nationals abroad , Ryan Cornelius included . In the last Parliament , the Foreign Affairs Committee published a significant report with a number of recommendations , not all of which were taken up . It criticised the FCDO for its “ unnecessarily defensive culture ” in this area , which “ impedes scrutiny ” , harms victims and their families and undermines public trust . The report found that previous Governments of all stripes had failed to learn the lessons from responding to such situations , and had been slow or unwilling to call out guilty countries . Our Atlantic allies , the United States and Canada , have learned those lessons , and created official roles to co - ordinate the response to state hostage taking and arbitrary detention in order to get their people home , which is , of course , a priority for all of us . Indeed , the creation of such a role was one of the Committee ’s recommendations to the Foreign Office and the Foreign Secretary . This time last year , when the Foreign Secretary was the shadow Foreign Secretary , he committed a Labour Government to creating a special envoy for arbitrary detention and state hostage taking . I warmly welcome the Minister of State to her role — I think I can still call her a new Minister a few months into the new Government — and I know that she takes these matters seriously . I ask her to reflect back to her colleagues and the Secretary of State that we should stick to that commitment . Let us follow in the footsteps of Canada and the United States , and let us not be advised out of that promise by officials . As I conclude , I return to the heart the debate with one simple request to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed . As a gesture of friendship , for the continued prosperity of our countries and for our mutual security , I hope that he will grant clemency to Ryan Cornelius . The UAE ’s national day , Eid al Etihad , is only around the corner on 2 December . I hope that on that day of great celebration , the Dubai Government will find the good will to extend a pardon to Ryan and allow him to return home to the United Kingdom and his family .