I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to come to the House to discuss the importance of river crossings in my constituency of Gravesham . I am grateful to the Minister for giving up his time today to respond to the debate . I wish to cover two crossings : one old and closed , which is the Gravesend to Tilbury ferry ; and one planned and very expensive , which is the lower Thames crossing . For those who do not know , Gravesham constituency is a river community . We are bound by the River Thames , with all its history , just as we Members are here in the House , and we are only 20 miles apart . For much of the history of the borough , there have been river crossings , certainly since Roman times . According to one esteemed local historian , Christoph Bull , the right of long ferry was exclusively given to Gravesend watermen to provide a river service to and from London . This is a bit of a history lesson , but that was confirmed by the King in 1401 in a charter , the aim being to help rebuild the town after a fire in 1380 . Since then , there has been a river crossing in place between the constituency of my hon . Friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) and mine . It has connected the two ancient kingdoms of Kent and Essex for eons , enabling travel for trade , leisure and tourism . Today , the Port of London Authority , which controls all travel of boats up and down the Thames , is based in my constituency , and I pay tribute to it . The Royal National Lifeboat Institution has a base on the river in Gravesend , and I know that the House would want to extend our thanks to it for the work it does across the country . The people of Gravesham and of my hon . Friend ’s constituency of Thurrock are river people . Many families , including mine , have links to the river . My late father - in - law , Trevor Mochrie , was a Gravesend tug seaman , who worked on the river early in his career , before working on the high seas . As the river is the main artery to and from London , Gravesham was and is strong on industry , and it is a source of employment in tourism and leisure . In particular , we have our Gravesend regatta , which is celebrating 179 years . It was running before that , but it was made official 179 years ago by the council , because of some very unparliamentary disputes that took place about who won a race . I place on record my tributes to the committee , its chair , Shane Cleaver , and all the volunteers for keeping this tradition going in a sportsmanlike fashion , and there have been no further disputes of that kind . Given that extensive local history and heritage , it was to our dismay and that of residents , businesses and visitors from Thurrock and Gravesend that Thurrock council and Kent county council ceased funding the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry service last year . Since the ending of that service , local businesses have suffered significantly . They have told me that it has impacted on people ’s ability to get to and from work , and that they have lost many people who can not bear the thought of taking the Dartford crossing in order to get to work . On our high street , one particular business , Marie ’s Tea Room , which used to cater for the passing trade from the large cruise ships that used to dock at Tilbury , has been impacted to the point that it can no longer employ a member of staff . These things have impacts , and I am sure it is the same across our high street . I have been running a petition , as has my hon . Friend the Member for Thurrock , and there have been others . My petition has garnered thousands of signatures — Motion lapsed ( Standing Order No . 9(3 ) ) . Motion made , and Question proposed , That this House do now adjourn.—(Keir Mather . ) My petition , which has garnered thousands of signatures , calls for the return of the ferry service . It is clear that businesses and residents want their ferry back . At present , there is a desire for people to travel by public transport , which I support . People should leave their cars at home , but they need options . Previously , the option was a 10 - minute jump across the water . Now , the options are a train into London and back out again , or multiple buses to get through the Dartford crossing . All this is costing us precious time . If we as a society want to support public transport , relieving congestion on the roads should be at the heart of everything we do . Take the example of the Woolwich ferry , which , by parliamentary statute , must be run and is not able to charge . I am not asking — tempting as it is — for that to be the case for the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry , but I am asking the local authority to protect these valuable transport routes .