Fifteen years of experience of leading and scrutinising complicated legislation tells me to be cautious with the Bill . I strongly admire its aims , but I have some questions to set out as to whether it will work . With direct knowledge of cancer and deep commitment to cancer awareness , I want people to smoke less . As we have heard , smoking causes around one in four of all UK cancer deaths . Tobacco , especially cigarette smoking , is the single most important and , as we have heard , preventable cause of ill health , disability and death in this country . I agree with the Bill ’s hope of reducing that suffering . I also desire the Bill ’s aim to realise an economic saving on healthcare , named as more than £ 3 billion in the impact assessment , and a productivity gain of £ 24 billion over 30 years . My hon . Friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the chair of the Health Committee , is right that we should be taking the long - term view and looking for the gains from prevention . For all that to be possible , however , the legislation has to work . I am joining today ’s debate — I shall keep it concise , Madam Deputy Speaker — because I care very much about politics and democracy working . As I stand down from Parliament this year , this is one of the final pieces of draft legislation for me and it is a significant proposition , so I will raise some points that are all intended to be thoughtful and are based on five terms of constituency work and ministerial experience in six Departments . In one of my past roles , I had to undo legislation that I had helped to implement , because it did not work . The age - of - sale mechanism in the Bill is the untested thing . It would be the first of its kind in the world , but that accolade would come only because a few have tried and failed to carry support . The Bill as a whole has an imperfect evidence base — that is clear throughout its analysis , in particular because we do not yet have the full data picture about the effects of vaping — so what is in front of us today is inherently risky and theoretical . It is also possible that it may be divisive by asking one group of adults to live under rules different from those for another . I understand that the Malaysian equivalent was challenged on equality grounds and I would be really interested to know what lessons the Minister has drawn from that . It is legitimate to be worried that something so novel may be unfair on retailers . The British Independent Retailers Association points out that the quite sophisticated enforcement needs of the mechanism fall on its members . As the Association of Convenience Stores adds , the “ proxy purchasing of any age - restricted products is extremely difficult for retailers to detect and prevent . ” Indeed , the deterrent in the Bill for proxy purchasing is just £ 50 , if a person caught and pays promptly . After my right hon . Friend the Chancellor ’s efforts at the latest Budget , that is actually only the cost of about two or three packets of cigarettes . I am therefore concerned that the design of the proxy - buying deterrents in the Bill could be fatally impractical for what is trying to be achieved . Let us put that in really super - practical terms . A person ’s friend , a year older , may well be able to go into a shop or online and get two packets and let their friend have one , and the cost of their doing so adds up in the end to only three or four packets for themselves . We ought to give considerable thought to that . The British Retail Consortium says that a better policy is needed on ID . I agree . I was surprised that the impact assessment says nothing about the impact of individuals needing to provide ID throughout their life , instead of just up to the age of adulthood . The document , of course , does deal with the costs to retailers of checking ID , but it is silent on the burden of asking a particular group of adults to have to prove their date of birth for life . I am talking about those who are or look , and would continue to be or to look , just above the age stated in the Bill . Healthy or unhealthy , right or wrong , they have every right to buy cigarettes and would remain in possession of that right , but they would have to prove it for life under the Bill . When I took the Bill that became the Elections Act 2022 through the House , we were rightly questioned hard about the notion of asking adults to bring identification to polling stations . We acknowledged up front that not everyone holds a driving licence or a passport , and ensured that other forms of ID were available , given the importance of people ’s democratic rights . This is a slightly different point and I am not making a direct comparison , but for the purposes of retail , free ID — for example , the CitizenCard — is already available . However , it needs to be renewed every few years , and a new requirement in the Bill means that it would need to be used for life . I think the Government should have more reassurances to give law - abiding people than silence . I said that I strongly admired the aspiration of the Bill . For the sake of all those who are entangled in a lethal addiction , I would like to see smoking stop in this country , so I am not standing here on ideological grounds . I am making sensible points about whether the Bill is going to work . We have had — rightly — a wide - ranging , reflective and constructive debate , but good intentions and heroic ambitions are not enough . If we are to do something very novel and use the power of legislation to do it , we need to have confidence that the legislation is workable . I hope that my fellow legislators will rise to the challenges that are presented by this idea , and will scrutinise it carefully . Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradshaw Jack Brereton Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James Davies Mims Davies Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Steve Double Stephen Doughty Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Laura Farris Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mike Freer Louie French Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant Chris Grayling Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Rachel Hopkins John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Kate Kniveton Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Robbie Moore Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Jill Mortimer David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil O'Brien Brendan O'Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin Will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Dean Russell David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Ben Spencer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Aaron Bell Mike Wood Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Steven Baker Simon Baynes Jake Berry Graham Brady Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Jackie Doyle - Price James Duddridge Mark Eastwood George Eustice Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Richard Fuller George Galloway Paul Girvan Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Darren Henry Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Robert Jenrick Greg Knight Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Carla Lockhart Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Rachel Maclean Anthony Mangnall Karl McCartney Anne Marie Morris Ian Paisley Jnr Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Giles Watling Sammy Wilson Gareth Johnson Craig Whittaker