Funnily enough , earlier today I was talking to the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . Friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , about exactly that issue . The hon . Gentleman mentioned that there was no mandate three years ago , and I was discussing how the reporting and so on was going . We know that not only are there the benefits of redistribution for individuals but there is a significant environmental benefit for not putting that food in landfill and creating methane , so arguably there is a double win . When done sensibly , redistribution enables others to do the same as charities such as the Felix Project , which freezes food and makes it available to people . The economy has turned a corner . Inflation has more than halved and is forecast to fall below 2 % in 2024 - 25 , while wages are rising in real terms and have done for the last consecutive nine months . Prices for food and non - alcoholic beverages rose by 12 % in the year to March , easing for the 12th consecutive month . However , we recognise the financial challenges that many are still facing , which is why as inflation comes down to the 2 % target we are continuing to provide support for the 2024 - 25 period . This includes uprating working - age benefits by 6.7 % , well ahead of the current inflation rate , and uplifting the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile of local rents , which will benefit about 1.6 million private renters by , on average , £ 800 a year , as the hon . Gentleman indicated , alleviating financial pressures throughout the system for individuals . Further , there is additional support for families , including free school meals , which are being claimed by some 2 million of the most disadvantaged pupils ; the £ 40 million that the Department for Education has put into stimulating the breakfast clubs ; and healthy food schemes , such as Healthy Start , which provide a nutritional safety net to more than 3 million children . I looked after the Healthy Start policy when I was at the Department of Health and Social Care , getting the uplift to £ 4.25 a week , so that pregnant women and children over one and under four receive £ 4.25 every week . For a child under one , it is £ 8.50 every week . This can be used to buy , or be put towards the cost of , fresh , frozen or tinned fruit and vegetables ; fresh , dried and tinned pulses ; milk and infant formula . I remember well meeting Daisy , who spoke to me very clearly about the difference it made having fresh produce , as the hon . Gentleman has already mentioned , come into her life and those of her children , and the nutritional benefit it gave them . For those who still need extra help while inflation continues to fall , we are providing an additional £ 500 million to enable the extension of the household support fund for a further six months , including funding for the devolved Administrations through the Barnett formula , meaning local authorities in England will receive an additional £ 421 million to support local people , with the rest being distributed to the other nations . Independent charitable organisations do fantastic work that also helps in this space , whether they are our local churches or organisations providing lunches and community pantry schemes . As the hon . Gentleman mentioned , they all help individuals and families when they are in need .