Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I am honoured to speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . I represent the village of Coseley in Dudley , as well as the towns of Tipton , Wednesbury and Hateley Heath in Sandwell . In the last Parliament , Shaun Bailey was a tireless advocate for this special corner of the Black Country , and I wish him well as he resumes his legal studies . Let me tell you about Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . We are an industrial constituency , shaped by factories , foundries , mines and canals . We have beautiful parks , laid out for the leisure of working people , and civic buildings of grace and gravitas , such as the grade II listed Tipton central library and the 16th - century St Bart ’s in Wednesbury . But more than anything , we have the people of the Black Country — creative , ingenious , hard - working and down to earth people like Thomas Barratt . Born in Coseley , he stopped the enemy advance and saved his patrol at Ypres . He was a boilermaker , awarded the Victoria Cross posthumously at just 22 . The workers of Tube Town , the metal finishing capital of the world , went out on strike for two long months in 1913 for a decent wage . They were backed all the way by their wives , heroes in their own right , who somehow kept 25,000 families fed amid near destitution . They won . I am proud to say that their union became my union , Unite . Workers have come to the constituency from Ireland , the Caribbean , Bangladesh , Kashmir and Punjab ; they left their homes to provide for their families , facing racism but prevailing , building churches , temples , mosques and gurdwaras , and seeing their children succeed . We are a proud , working - class community . Too often , people have stood in this place and talked our area down . I will never . Of course , the name “ Black Country ” is for the smoke of heavy industry ; there has been coalmining , steel fabrication , metal finishing , and nail , brick and chain making . We are where the industrial revolution started . James Watt ’s first steam engine hauled coal in Tipton , at the Bloomfield colliery . Today , despite everything , a quarter of all workers in our area are still in manufacturing . We may be the Black Country , but modern manufacturing is clean , high - skill and high - wage . In Sandwell , 1,000 firms — with 21,000 jobs — make everything , from street furniture to hinges to locks to the precision metal forming for aeroplanes and power plants . I am proud to wear the “ Made in Britain ” badge , and to back our new deal for working people . If we are to have a new industrial revolution here in the UK as we meet the challenge of climate change , let us make it with our hands and our brains , in the place that was the crucible of the first industrial revolution , the Black Country . I stand for no more and no less than this : prosperity for every family . My friends at the TUC worked out that if wages had risen in the last decade by the amount by which they rose between 1997 and 2010 , the average worker in my constituency would be £ 93 a week better off . That is nearly five grand a year more in people ’s pockets . In the Black Country , we work hard , but forces bigger than any individual — deindustrialisation , Thatcherism , and the cruel austerity of these last 14 years — mean that good folk there earn less and have fewer chances and fewer choices than people elsewhere . Fully half of our kids grow up below the poverty line , in infested B&Bs , in homes with damp dripping down the walls , or in flats made for two , but home to three times that . For many , most weeks , the money stretches , just about — until the week when it does not . I want to turn the thoughts of those in this House to the young people in my constituency , almost none of whom go to fee - paying schools . Four in 10 kids in my constituency did not get grade 4 GCSE in maths and English last year . That has to change , and we will change it . As I stand here today , the obstacles to delivering prosperity , and more than that — comfort , security , leisure — to every worker and every family seem almost insurmountable , but we take heart from our history : from Ernie Bevin , who forged the working - class women and men of the UK into an industrial machine that , from a standing start , equipped our country for victory . In my area , those in saucepan factories made grenades , and car makers built the machines to defeat fascism . That is a reminder that once we turn our minds to something , the ingenuity and drive of the British working class can rarely be equalled . It is for us , here , to set it free . I will always stand against decline and for progress . After all , I grew up in a world where people like me could not get married , but now our beloved daughter has both her mothers ’ names on her birth certificate . To believe in progress is to believe that once again this country can work for working people . It is time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so my final words are to the people of our towns . Tipton , Coseley , Wednesbury , Hateley Heath : I am here to serve you always .