It was a Labour Government who enshrined in law the right to freedom of expression , and it is a Labour Government who will again uphold freedom of speech and academic freedom on our university campuses — not through creating a culture war , but through working with academics , students and campaigners to get the legislation right . The Secretary of State wrote to colleagues and made a written statement on 24 July 2024 on her decision to pause further commencement of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 in order to consider options . We have heard concerns from minority groups and others that that Act and its implementation may have unintended consequences and result in disproportionate burdens for universities and student unions . Many are concerned that it could push providers to overlook the safety and wellbeing of minority groups over fears of sanction and costly action . I want to provide the House with reassurance that this Government believe that higher education must be a space for robust discussion that exposes both students and academics to challenging ideas . The decision to pause the Act was made precisely because of the importance of getting this legislation right . The Secretary of State indicated in her written statement that she would confirm her long - term plans for the Act “ as soon as possible ” . Since then , officials and Ministers have engaged with a wide range of stakeholders on the future of the Act . This includes representatives of higher education providers and academics , including those from the Committee for Academic Freedom , Academics for Academic Freedom and the London Universities ’ Council for Academic Freedom . Those officials and Ministers will continue to engage with stakeholders before any final decision is made . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to make my maiden speech in this uplifting debate to celebrate the success of the Olympics and Paralympics . I congratulate the hon . Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) ; I completely agree with her sentiments about children who are beneath the radar , and I will do everything I can to ensure that they are lifted and seen . One of my happiest family memories is of a trip in 2012 to enjoy the spectacle and the spirit of the London Paralympics in the pool and on the track , a day that surely inspired my own children ’s passion for and dedication to sport . My constituency can lay claim to Britain ’s first ever track and field Olympic gold medallist : Charles Bennett , a train driver from Shapwick — otherwise known as the Shapwick Express — won the 1,500 metres in 1900 and took two further medals , but was largely forgotten until his family discovered his achievements more than 100 years later . My own journey to this place has been more of a marathon than a sprint . It took four attempts for me to win my seat of Mid Dorset and North Poole , my home for 25 years . That journey also started in 2012 , when Dame Annette Brooke , the then Liberal Democrat MP , invited me to tea and suggested that I put myself forward as a candidate . I explained that I was just a mum of four running a café and was completely unqualified for the job , having never been to university , and that “ people like me did not become MPs ” . She simply replied , “ That is why you should stand . ” Without her faith in me I would not be here , and I hope that I can emulate her work — such as her support for park home owners , protecting Dorset ’s heathlands and fighting for better education funding — and that I can achieve just a fraction of the deep respect and admiration that our community still feels for her . I turn to my immediate predecessor , Michael Tomlinson . He was so proud of his legislative roles — first as a Government Whip , then as Solicitor General , and most recently as the Minister for Illegal Immigration . I know that he took these responsibilities very seriously , but not as seriously as his love for cricket . On a recent trip to the Netherlands , he captained the Lords and Commons parliamentary cricket team against their parliamentary team . My constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole is made up of dozens of communities , all with their own special character . We are all linked through our landscape , particularly the Dorset heathlands , which are home to all six of the UK ’s native reptiles and to ground - nesting birds . It has the most lovely walks , including on Upton heath , known to my social media followers as “ my happy place . ” The work undertaken by the Dorset Wildlife Trust , RSPB Arne , the National Trust and others to restore our landscapes means that we are one of the only places in the UK to have reversed the decline in nature . Eco - tourism is now supporting economic growth , preserving the way of life in our countryside , towns and villages . While the beaches are in neighbouring constituencies , our playgrounds are our rivers , but I should stress that that is on the water , not in the water . The navigable River Frome is ideal for a Birds of Poole Harbour boat trip to catch sight of a white - tailed eagle or a deer on the foreshore , or for a sail up to the Anglo - Saxon walled town of Wareham , with its art deco cinema and pretty pubs on the quay , while the smaller River Piddle is perfect for paddling . The River Stour runs down from the north to Wimborne Minster , home to river - based Dreamboats , Canford school ’s rowing facility and Poole harbour canoe club . I will fight to clean up our rivers and achieve bathing water status at Eye Bridge , where our teenagers already spend their summer days chilling out by the water , and where parents like us taught our kids to kayak . I want to support the amazing people who are working to use our natural environment to improve health and wellbeing through sport — people like Will Behenna , who founded Inclusive Paddleboarding after being paralysed and now helps disabled people enjoy the tranquillity and freedom of the water . Off the water , Wimborne Minster is named after its ninth - century church and is home to a chained library , a museum with a mummified cat in the walls — apparently for good luck — and an annual folk festival . The Drax and Kingston Lacy estates , and the villages that go out towards Holt Heath , provide the chocolate - box images you read about in Thomas Hardy ’s literature . According to local legend , much of the content for his novels came from listening to the town ’s gossip when he lived in Wimborne . Returning to sport , England saw footballing success and heartbreak this summer with the Euros , but in mid - Dorset we were thrilled that Wimborne Town football club was promoted to the southern league premier south , and that the neighbouring AFC Bournemouth opened its world - class training facility in Bearwood in my constituency , guaranteeing a pipeline of brilliant future Dorset footballers . Mind you , the pedigree is already there , as two of the England under-23 ladies ’ team came through Broadstone middle school as classmates of my own children . Given that Olympic trampolinist Izzy Songhurst from Broadstone , champion go - karters and winning sailors , among others , grew up in our constituency , I want to pay particular tribute to the volunteer coaches who make it possible for our children to have these opportunities , as well as to charities such as Dorset Community Foundation , which helps our athletes compete at the highest level or simply lets children take part in what they love . Every child must be able to thrive , but our current education system stops that happening for so many young people . We have a curriculum that crushes creativity , a SEND system that condemns children to fail , and a grip so tight on Ofsted measures that teachers do not have the space to truly share the joy of learning . Some of our children face an even greater battle , including children in care , young carers , children who suffer bereavement , and those with disabilities or life - limiting conditions . We need those children to thrive too , and thanks to charities such as Become , MYTIME Young Carers , Mosaic , Diverse Abilities and Julia ’s House children ’s hospice , so many of them do . But with councils facing bankruptcy and unable to deliver much in non - statutory services , and with public donations down due to the cost of living , they need action from the Government to secure proper funding . As an MP , my voice is my power , and I will use it to fight for them , and for all who strive to improve the lives of those who feel voiceless . I also want to send a message to people in my community who feel powerless , and to young people who are worried about the future : if you want something badly enough , keep trying . It is possible , whatever your background , your gender and your struggles . Like me , you might take the long route , but like my famous country “ mum walks ” , the long ones are where you stumble across the most interesting places and create lasting memories . Like many people , I have a bucket list . It has just three things on it : to run the London marathon , to earn a degree , and to represent my community as a Member of Parliament . Well , Dad , I finally achieved one of them . Although he is not here in the Chamber today — he is watching at home — I hope he is proud . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] I still pinch myself about being in this place . I am just a mum with four fabulous kids — Molly , Abbi , Isaac and George — and my long - suffering husband Paul . I have an incredible team of volunteers who keep believing in me , and a community who have put their trust in me to speak up for them . I want everyone living in Mid Dorset and North Pole , from Shitterton to Happy Bottom — yes , they are real places — and from Gaunt ’s Common to Canford Heath , to know that they have a champion in me , and to know that I am committed to making the places that we all call home the best they can be .