It is with great privilege and a deep sense of responsibility that I stand before you today , Madam Deputy Speaker . As I take my place in this historic Chamber , I am acutely aware of the profound trust placed in us by the constituents of our great nation . I wish to express my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Leicester East for electing me to represent them in Parliament . My story , like that of many in Leicester , is one of heritage , resilience and opportunity . My parents arrived in Leicester from Kenya and India in the late 1970s , bringing with them cultural and faith traditions and a remarkable work ethic . They made Rushey Mead their home , and I was born and raised there . From Herrick primary school to Soar Valley college and De Montfort University , Leicester has nurtured me every step of the way and for that I am deeply thankful . As is customary , I pay tribute to Claudia Webbe , my immediate predecessor , who served the constituency to the very best of her ability . Claudia followed in the footsteps of Keith Vaz who , alongside Paul Boateng and Bernie Grant , broke new ground in the representation of people of colour in Parliament . In the election , I had the unique experience of standing against both Claudia and Keith — a testament to the vibrant political landscape of Leicester East . Leicester is a city of remarkable history and diversity . Leicester hosts the largest Diwali festival outside India . It is home to the UK ’s longest running comedy festival . It is one of England ’s oldest cities , so much so that we found a king under one of our carparks ; for those who do not know , one of our earliest kings , King Richard III , was found under a carpark in Leicester . The University of Leicester is the birthplace of DNA fingerprinting . Leicester is also home to the National Space Centre and we are proud of our contributions to the arts , sciences and sports . We have got it all going on in Leicester , but if Members remain unconvinced that Leicester has influenced their life , because perhaps they are not a former monarch or a scientist in their spare time , Leicester has also given Britain icons like the late Lord Richard Attenborough and — very much living — Sir David Attenborough , Gary Lineker and Peter Shilton . Our city is where Walkers crisps were born and where fashion guru Gok Wan grew up . Leicester ’s influence even extends to music , with entertainers like Engelbert Humperdinck and Showaddywaddy . So whether you have tucked into a bag of ready salted , gone to the cinema to watch “ Jurassic Park ” or boogied on down to “ Hey Rock and Roll ” , you ’ve got Leicester to thank . This is what true diversity looks like . In fact , in 2013 Leicester was described as the most multicultural city in the UK . Today , 59 % of people living in Leicester are from ethnic minority groups , and 41 % were born outside the UK . But most relevant to today ’s debate is employment and businesses in my constituency . Leicester is located at the heart of England , and local businesses are the lifeblood of our city . Leicester was recognised as the UK ’s most entrepreneurial city — a title that reflects the resilience , creativity and determination of its people . Our entrepreneurial scene is not just about numbers ; it is about stories , of those who dared to dream big , hustled harder , and turned their ideas into reality . The Employment Rights Bill threatens to undermine that spirit before those entrepreneurs have even made their first £ 1 . The additional costs and regulations proposed will act as a barrier to entry , discouraging the very innovation and hard work that has earned Leicester that title . We must be cautious not to stifle the ambition of small business owners , who are the backbone of our economy . Our journey is one of innovation and community — a story of people coming together across different sectors and backgrounds to build something truly remarkable . In a city as diverse as Leicester , many rely on flexible work to balance family commitments , faith observances or second jobs . By imposing blanket regulations that do not consider the unique needs of our communities , the Bill risks alienating the very workforce it aims to protect . We must ensure that employment regulations support businesses and workers alike . Imposing regulations that add costs without first offering support will harm the very people Labour claims to champion . For our small businesses in Leicester , many of which work with razor - thin margins , the burdens imposed by the Bill will be overwhelming . It is one thing to champion workers ’ rights , but quite another to do so in a way that risks the survival of the very businesses that provide the jobs . Let us not forget that successful businesses are the best way to secure meaningful long - term employment . Our decisions in this House will shape the future of our country for generations to come . It is imperative that we approach these challenges in a spirit of collaboration , transcending partisan divides to serve the best interests of all our constituents . With our nation facing economic challenges , the Bill risks raising costs for consumers and worsening the cost of living crisis , particularly in communities like Leicester East , where many are already struggling to make ends meet . We must find solutions that protect workers without penalising local businesses and their customers . I am honoured to stand before the House as the Member for Leicester East , and I warmly invite you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all hon . Members to visit our great city . You can join us for our glorious Diwali celebrations , our annual Pride parade or our vibrant Caribbean carnival . Come and experience the city where fish and chips are just as popular as samosas and kebabs , and where Stilton and Red Leicester cheeses sit alongside Italian pizza and French patisserie . The road ahead may be challenging , but it is also filled with possibilities . I firmly believe that not only Leicester ’s but our country ’s greatest days are ahead of us , and I am grateful to be able to play my part , championing my constituents in that endeavour . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . As a proud trade union member , I refer to the House to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests , and congratulate the hon . Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) on her moving maiden speech . It is with great pride and humility that I rise today for the first time as the elected Member for Hyndburn and Haslingden . I start by paying tribute to my immediate predecessor , Sara Britcliffe , for her commitment to Hyndburn and for leading the way as the first woman to represent the constituency . I can not make this speech without also paying tribute to the previous Labour Member , Graham Jones , whose selfless support and kindness I am privileged to have received . Graham is the most fierce champion of Lancashire : he has fought tirelessly for the people of Hyndburn , and is a man you always want in your corner . With the north - west of England being scourged with gambling - related suicides , particularly among young men , Graham led the successful campaign to reduce the maximum stake on fixed - odds betting terminals from £ 100 to just £ 2 . That campaign will undoubtedly have saved and improved many lives . It may surprise Members when I say that Hyndburn is not a real place . No one really relates to being from Hyndburn ; instead , they identify proudly as a resident of Accrington , Great Harwood , Rishton , Altham , Oswaldtwistle , Clayton - le - Moors or Church . Each of those communities has its own rich history , culture and identity . My constituency is the home of the largest Tiffany glass collection in Europe , the Accrington Pals , and the Nori brick , which was used to build the Empire State Building . It is also the home of one of the 12 founder members of the football league , whose legacy is continued by Accrington Stanley football club . I am sure the House will join me in congratulating the boys on their third win on the trot against Barrow at the weekend . Perhaps most significantly , my constituency was the engine of the industrial revolution during the 19th century . The invention of the spinning jenny , the mechanisation of calico printing , and the creation of turkey red and khaki dyes enabled the globalisation of the textile industry , but the huge wealth that the mill owners made was often at the cost of the workers , whose living and working conditions were terrible . I also represent the magnificent and diverse town of Haslingden , whose coat of arms reads “ Nothing without labour ” . That motto was a statement of solidarity : in 1826 , amid loom - breaking riots in east Lancashire , hundreds of people in Haslingden attacked machinery in protest at pay cuts and their awful working conditions . Many perished due to poverty and hardship , but by 1850 and with the support of churches and reformers , a minimum wage was eventually introduced . We stand in this Chamber almost 200 years later , and although things have of course improved hugely , too many of my constituents are still struggling to make ends meet with zero - hours contracts , low wages and insecure work . While in the 19th century , workers had to literally fight for basic rights , we now — thanks to trade unions and the Labour party — have representation of working people in this more civil way . That is why I welcome this Bill , which strengthens employees ’ rights , stops the exploitative use of zero - hours contracts and , importantly , gives people the right to maternity and paternity pay from day one . Hyndburn and Haslingden is a magnificent and beautiful constituency that I am proud to call home . It is where my husband James grew up and where we got married , in the beautiful church of St Peter and St Paul ’s where his dad , Paul , was the vicar for 18 years . As well as showing dedication to his parish , Paul was instrumental in establishing the sixth - form provision at St Christopher ’s school , which has changed the lives of countless young people . Tragically , we lost Paul within days of my election , so he is not here with us today , but I will continue to fight to break down all the barriers to opportunity that our children and young people face . Without my family , I would not be standing here . I want to put on record how grateful I am to my parents , Rosemary and Gary , to my brother Mark , and to Margaux , James , Ellie and both the Ruths for believing in me and standing by me every step of the way . As a Christian , I also give thanks to Jesus for giving me this opportunity . As I go on this journey , I will remember always the verse in Micah and aim to carry out justice , to love mercy and to walk humbly with God throughout my time here . I first got involved in politics because I think it is wrong that , far too often , the postcode where people are born determines so many of their life outcomes . For as long as I am privileged to represent Hyndburn and Haslingden , I will work tirelessly to ensure that children born in Clayton have the same life chances as those born in Chelsea , and I will make it my mission to represent them in the corridors of power , but I will also make it my mission to be present , transparent , and accessible as a local champion for the residents of Hyndburn and Haslingden . It is an immense privilege to be here today as the Member of Parliament for Dover and Deal . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests : I am a proud small business owner and a union member , and it is fantastic to see so many Labour Members who are small business owners speaking in support of the Bill . Over the past two years , I have knocked on thousands of doors , spoken to families , business owners and workers , and listened to their hopes and concerns . Today , I bring their voice to this House , but first I pay tribute to my predecessor , who was and still is an ardent champion on housing issues . Before the general election , she sent a clear message to the country when she crossed the Floor of the House to join the Labour party . Dover and Deal is the gateway to Britain , with our port bringing £ 144 billion of trade into the country , but it is also a place rich in history , resilience and community spirit . From the iconic white cliffs to the finest castle in Britain , and from the newly reopened Roman painted house to the proud former mining communities in Aylesham , Snowdon and Betteshanger , we represent the very best of what it means to be British . We also have beautiful coastal paths with some truly great pub stops along the way , as Members have probably seen from my social media ; they include the King ’s Head and the Forresters in Deal , the Zetland Arms in Kingsdown and Cullins Yard in Dover . We have castles in Dover , Walmer and Deal . I wonder whether my constituency has the most castles in the country , but I am open to challenge on that . My commitment to public service and hard work stems well and truly from my upbringing . One grandad flew the Catalina flying boats that took out Nazi submarines , and then went on to sell Colman ’s mustard from Cambridge . The other grandad was a lifelong , distinguished Royal Mail worker , and that generation ’s unwavering spirit of hard work runs through my family . My father , a dedicated police officer , and my mother , a social worker , showed me that real service is about standing strong for others . Their steadfast dedication to helping those in need taught me that strength is found not in titles , but in the service we provide to those around us . That lesson has guided me in my own life — in the Army , in a counter - terror role at the National Crime Agency , and now as the proud Member of Parliament for Dover and Deal . But I do not stand here alone . I pay tribute to my wife — my hero — who came from Estonia at just 18 years of age , 16 years ago . She has always been and will always be my rock , having supported me through a very difficult and long campaign . Linda has shown remarkable resilience and dedication in turning her passion for dogs into her own thriving small business , which will continue to thrive and grow under this new Bill . We have two dogs of our own . Some of you will know Scooby from the campaign trail . He has become so famous that my Wikipedia page simply states : “ Personal life : He has a dog called Scooby . ” I assure you that I have more of a personal life than that — and a second dog , a puggle called Monki . It is no secret that I am just a little bit patriotic . When you represent Dover and Deal , how could you not be ? For centuries , we have stood strong against invaders and threats , from Napoleon to the Nazis . Dover and Deal has always been at the heart of Britain ’s story , and I am committed to ensuring that we remain a proud and prosperous part of the country ’s future . Dover and Deal is where national challenges meet local reality . We are a community on the frontline of issues such as border security , immigration and trade . We face these challenges with the strength and sense of duty that has always defined us . Under this Government , Dover and Deal will be treated with the respect it deserves . My vision is for a Dover and Deal where our community can thrive , with improved infrastructure , stronger public services and more opportunities for young people to build their futures there . We are more than a point of transit ; we are a community of hard - working people who keep our port running , our businesses thriving and our public services going . As we debate the future of workers ’ rights , I want to say on record that the P&O Ferries scandal , which affected so many of my constituents , must never be repeated . That is why I fully support this Bill .