We are taking every step we can in relation to the steel industry because it is vital that we give it the support that it needs . We need steel in this country . We need to steel made in this country , and our plans and our missions mean that we are going to need more steel , not less . It is the duty of the Government to ensure that jobs , communities and people are not ignored in the transition and that jobs are protected . The Business Secretary will provide an update to the House this afternoon . I am grateful for that kind offer . Of course I will readily accept a visit to Burnley — perhaps through the lens of my role as the local growth and towns Minister . We could have a very interesting visit and I would be glad to do it . I am conscious of the time ; I am going to run out of it , unthinkably . We may have to pick up any further interventions in a different form , because I want to get to the points about buildings insurance , lending and service charges raised by my hon . Friends the Members for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , for Eltham and Chislehurst and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . One thing we know is that there has not been enough change in this space over the past seven years , but there has been change in the insurance bills that many leaseholders have been facing . We understand the financial and emotional impact that extreme insurance premiums have been having on leaseholders . Affected leaseholders have been burdened with paying too high premiums for too long . I assure colleagues that we are working actively to reduce premiums for leaseholders , and we are reviewing how better to protect leaseholders from costs and push for fair premiums for leaseholders in buildings with fire safety issues . Colleagues have talked about buying , selling or remortgaging homes . We have seen improvements in that space , but we remain vigilant . We will continue to hold particularly the 10 largest lenders to account following their commitment to lend on properties even where remediation is not yet complete . They must keep that promise . On service charges , by law , variable service charges must be reasonable . As colleagues have raised , that has been stretched significantly by some of the practices we have seen . The Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 contains measures to ensure that leaseholders get key financial and non - financial information so that they can scrutinise and hold to account the organisations that they are working with on service charges . Not all of that legislation has been commenced ; secondary legislation is required , but we are working on that actively . We just want to get it right . My hon . Friend the Member for Reading Central ( Matt Rodda ) talked about the pace of remediation . Again , we accept that the pace is too slow ; we have said that throughout , and what we have seen in Dagenham and Slough are horrific reminders of the risk that unsafe cladding still poses to far too many people . The Deputy Prime Minister has been very clear on her intention to drive that forward — again , there is that political will — and to get more action out of manufacturers , freeholders , developers and organisations with responsibility for making sure that buildings are safe . Too many building owners are still not acting quickly enough , so we will investigate , pursue the most egregious actors who are creating unacceptable delays , and hold them to account . The message from this Dispatch Box and from this Government is clear : “ Use the routes we have created to get your buildings fixed , and get on with it . ” I now turn to the points made by the right hon . Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) and the hon . Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) about the inquiry . The right hon . Gentleman expressed concern that the report would be shelved , and the hon . Lady was concerned that it would just be words , so again , let me make the commitment — this speaks to the response I gave to my hon . Friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) — that the report ’s recommendations must be considered with the seriousness that this tragedy deserves . We will look at all 58 recommendations in detail ; there will be a debate on the Floor of this House ; we will respond in full within six months ; and we will be listening to the community throughout the process . We will update Parliament annually on our progress so that we can be held to account , but we will also get on quickly with the things we can do , whether that is speeding up remediation or reforming construction products . The change has not been at the pace that it ought to have been , but it will get better . I can commit that the report will not , as the right hon . Gentleman has said , just be shelved — far from it . The hon . Members for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) and for Woking ( Mr Forster ) mentioned buildings under 11 metres . Our approach to cladding remediation has been to prioritise the risk of loss of life . It is generally accepted that the risk to life is proportional to the height of buildings , so the risk to life is usually lower in buildings under 11 metres , and they are very unlikely to need the same costly remediation . Building safety remediation works may be required in a very small number of those buildings , but so far , our casework as a Department over the past couple of years shows that of the more than 160 cases that have been raised , only three have fallen into that category . As such , we think that is an appropriate distinction to draw . My hon . Friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) made a point about RAAC . This issue is different in Scotland than it is in England : Scotland has its own responsibilities , which the Scottish Government must work within , and as I said to my hon . Friend , we will work within the best practices too . It is the duty of building owners , including local authorities if they are the owner , to fulfil their duties to manage building safety and performance risks of all kinds — including RAAC — in a proportionate manner . The shadow Minister , the hon . Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , talked about personal evacuation plans , or PEEPs . We must ensure that the most vulnerable in our society are protected . On 2 September , through a written ministerial statement , the Government announced that the Home Office will bring forward in the autumn proposals to improve fire safety and the evacuation of disabled or vulnerable residents in high - rise and higher - risk residential buildings in England . Those proposals will be called residential PEEPs . Through them , residents with disabilities and impairments will be entitled to a person - centred risk assessment to identify the appropriate equipment and adjustments to aid their fire safety and evacuation , as well as a residential PEEP statement that says what vulnerable residents should do in the event of a fire . The Government have committed funding next year to begin that important work by supporting social housing providers to deliver PEEPs for their renters . The shadow Minister also mentioned product hallmarks . We stand by what was said in the written ministerial statement — I would have hoped that gave enough confidence — but for clarity , this is about stronger standards , not weaker standards . I hope the hon . Gentleman can take confidence from that .