The Budget took the first steps in this Government ’s plan to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the country : it included an additional £ 214 million for our plan to get Britain working , a new fair repayment rate in universal credit to help over 1 million of the poorest households , and the biggest ever package to reduce fraud and error in the system , ensuring that every pound of taxpayers ’ money is wisely spent . There is much , much more to do , but in the Department for Work and Pensions , change has begun . It is a great honour to be called to make my first contribution in this place as the Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Stirling and Strathallan . My constituency is the geographic heart of Scotland , and what a beautiful part of the world I am lucky enough to represent ! At just under 2,500 sq km , it is predominantly a rural constituency — from its farming villages , including Drymen , Buchlyvie , Callander and Killin , to its former coalmining villages of Bannockburn , Fallin , Plean and Cowie ; from the bonnie banks of Loch Lomond to the mountains of the Trossachs and the valleys carved by the rivers Forth , Endrick , Teith and Allan . It has the city of Stirling , with its majestic castle defending a royal burgh that became a royal city in 2002 , and the city of Dunblane , with its magnificent medieval cathedral . Politically , I follow in the footsteps of a daunting list of constituency representation that includes one Prime Minister , the father of a Prime Minister , two Secretaries of State for Scotland , a Secretary of State for War , a Father of the House of Commons and a Leader of the House of Lords . In my lifetime , we have had Harry Ewing , the godfather of devolution ; Michael Forsyth , who brought the Stone of Destiny back to Scotland ; and Dame Anne McGuire , who as Minister for disabled people signed the first human rights charter of the 21st century on behalf of the United Kingdom at the United Nations . Steven Paterson and Stephen Kerr bring us to my predecessor , Alyn Smith . Alyn represented Stirling in the previous Parliament , but prior to that , he represented Scotland with distinction as a Member of the European Parliament . He cares deeply for Scotland and has public service at his heart . I wish him well for the future and thank him for his service . The coalfields of central Scotland transformed the landscape of the southern end of my constituency over the past 150 years . My great - grandfather , William Kane , was a miner , and while working at the coalface in 1914 , a large rock dislodged from the ceiling and crushed him . William died from his injuries . His son , my grandfather Frank , was 12 years old , and had to leave school to earn money — not to take the family out of poverty , but to keep them alive . Everything that troubles me about that story has been improved by the Labour party and the trade union movement , with their relentless focus on improving workplace conditions and workers ’ rights over the past 100 years . “ We feel that something should be done . We have the idea that one of the functions of the Government of this country is to see to it that there should be equality , equity , and fairplay between the parties , that the weak should be protected from any outrage by the strong … It is the business of the Government to see to it that there should be equity and fairplay between all conditions of people in the State . ”—[Official Report , 13 December 1922 ; Vol . 159 , c. 3011 . ] Those are not my words , but those of my grandfather Frank ’s uncle , Hugh Murnin , who was also a miner . They were spoken by Hugh in this place , in his maiden speech , after he became the MP for Stirling in 1922 . Reading all of Mr Murnin ’s speech , I was struck by how much has changed from his description of work , and how much has stayed the same . There is still much to do to delivery dignity and fair play , which is why I am proud that this Government are raising the national living wage and , through the Employment Rights Bill , will update the UK ’s outdated employment laws and turn the page on an economy blighted by insecurity , poor productivity and low pay . I should say that 12 - year - old Frank , my grandfather , became a grocer ’s apprentice . He developed an entrepreneurial spark that took off when the BBC began broadcasting in Scotland in the 1920s . He opened Bannockburn ’s Radio Music Store to supply radio sets and constantly recharge the large lead - acid batteries on which they depended . That business prospered under my parents , Bill and Diane , and my brother Michael runs the business today — shop local when you can . Along with coal , the rivers and lochs of my constituency bring with them nutrients that are vital for farming . The flat floodplain of the Forth is 16 miles long and 4 miles wide , and is filled with farms that today produce everything from beef to dairy and from sheep to pumpkins . For many years , the River Forth was Europe ’s premier oyster fishery . Over 30 million oysters were harvested each year in the early 19th century , but overfishing caused a collapse and the Forth oyster was declared extinct in 1957 . Issues such as overfishing and sustainability are studied in great depth at the University of Stirling ’s international centre for aquaculture , the largest of its kind in the world . It is leading the way in research to tackle the global problems of food security , hunger and sustainability through the world ’s rivers and seas . It was also a researcher from the institute of aquaculture who discovered in 2014 that the Forth oyster was still alive , with two of them growing in the river . When the railway arrived in my constituency in 1848 , it brought with it an entrepreneurial spirit that saw Scotland ’s first oil refinery open in Riverside in Stirling . Until the Forth bridge opened in 1890 , the bridges at Stirling carried most of Scotland ’s goods to and from the highlands . Scotland ’s first heavier - than - air flight took place in Stirling when the Barnwell brothers built and flew an aircraft in the shadow of Stirling castle . That entrepreneurial spirit lives on in the likes of Highland Spring , a fantastic family business in Blackford that neighbours Gleneagles , one of the world ’s premier hotels and golf courses . In Stirling , a £ 20 million investment has recently been announced to create a film and TV studio that will be the largest in Scotland . Stirling was the first gigabit internet city in the United Kingdom , and one of the first in the world to digitally map its city to create an augmented reality smartphone experience . We are a growing base for life sciences , manufacturing and , of course , tourism . My constituency offers some of the best outdoor activities in the country , from salmon fishing to hillwalking , with lots of family - friendly activities along the way . If history and heritage are your thing , we have castles , monuments , battlegrounds and the only working church other than Westminster Abbey to have hosted a coronation . For those who like sport , Stirling was showcased to the world in 2023 with the time trials of the Union Cycliste Internationale ’s cycling world championships . Scotland ’s national swimming academy is at Stirling University and has produced Olympic medallists including Duncan Scott and Robbie Renwick . The UK ’s national curling academy is also in Stirling , and I can not mention sport without referencing Judy , Jamie and Andy Murray , whose success , resilience and mindset have forever linked tennis with the city of Dunblane . Stirling and Strathallan is not in the heart of Scotland : it is the heart of Scotland . Much of the modern sense of Scottish cultural identity originated in my constituency , from the battles of Wallace and Bruce at Stirling bridge and Bannockburn over 700 years ago to the reinvention of tartan at the mills of William Wilson — also in Bannockburn — in the 1800s . A much more subtle sense of my constituency is found here in this place and in the UK identity , because it was a Stirling resident , a weel - kent local face called King James VI , who united the kingdoms of England and Scotland in 1603 . I have walked about this place wondering which of our traditions have their origins in the traditions of the court of King James at Stirling castle . Stirling is celebrating its 900th anniversary this year—900 years since King David granted a small settlement on the River Forth burgh status . Stirling and Strathallan has gone on to give much to Scotland , the United Kingdom and the world over the past 900 years , and there is much more to come . Stirling and Strathallan is proud of its past and ambitious for its future , and I am hugely honoured and privileged to represent my home here in this place .