That is an important concern . As my hon . Friend knows , we are determined to open up opportunities for people who have been out of work , often for a long time , on health and disability grounds , and to give them the chance to get into work through much better employment support . However , we recognise that there will be people who will never be able to work . Under the proposals for claims for the new universal credit health element , from next April , a higher payment will protect those with the most severe lifelong conditions that have no prospect of improvement , and who will never be able to work . Eligibility for that will be through the work capability assessment conditions criteria . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests about the help that I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . I am also the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . I welcome the Government ’s action in the Bill to repeal parts of the previous Government ’s repeated gimmicks and nonsense legislation in the last Parliament . I will speak to new clauses 1 , 2 and 37 , all of which I have sponsored . New clause 1 was tabled by my right hon . Friend — apologies , I should have said my hon . Friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) ; she is not right honourable , but she should be . The new clause would require the Home Office to publish quarterly statistics and information on deaths in the asylum system and small boat channel crossings . Under the last Government , a horrifying number of refugees and people seeking asylum died trying to cross the channel and in Home Office accommodation . In 2024 , that number reached a record high . Despite daily and weekly reports on the number of people stopped or deported , we still do not have regular , clear and transparent reporting on those who have lost their lives in the system . That is incredibly important , not just morally but in order to address the evidence gap , so that we get policy right . New clause 2 would require reports on the right to work . I heard what the Minister said about this being a discussion about time , but mental health and working rights are not separate issues . The majority of asylum seekers in the UK are unable to work and use their skills to support themselves and their families or even to save enough to rent a home . Instead , they are trapped , isolated , inactive and dependent on state support . There are countless compelling reasons why asylum seekers should be allowed to work like the rest of the population . Given the huge amount of support that idea has from the public and businesses , we should at least have the opportunity to scrutinise why the ban remains and the impact that it is having . If we want integration , why not let people work in their communities and build English language skills ? Finally , new clause 37 , tabled by my hon . Friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , seeks to ensure that children born in the UK who have grown up here and know no other home are not priced out of citizenship simply because of their parents ’ immigration status at the time of their birth . Such young people are part of our communities , schools and the fabric of our future . They should not be denied their rights or go on to face barriers in education , housing , healthcare and across society . They are not “ strangers ” ; they are our friends and neighbours . Some have stoked racist divisions against migrants — a drum that the far right have continually banged since — and the whole House must oppose that rhetoric . Amid rising anti - refugee sentiment , including last year ’s shocking riots , it could not be more urgent or valuable to enable people to feel secure and contribute to their communities . I am aghast at some of the amendments tabled by Opposition parties , particularly new clause 41 . I wonder how many ruined lives those Members will consider too many . It is shameful to see the victimisation of people who have come here to find safety .