Thank you , Madam Chair . Before I talk about Plymouth , may I celebrate the amazing speeches that we have heard this afternoon , and pay tribute to the wealth of experience and passion , not just on the Government Benches but across the Chamber ? It is really heartening . My hon . Friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) spoke about the spirit that we have all seen in the communities that we represent , and the confidence that he has in that spirit to overcome some of the challenges that we are facing as a nation and in our communities . I completely share that . Let me now talk about Plymouth , the city that I call home and the city that I am so proud to represent in this place as the Member for Plymouth Moor View . I want to talk about our people , our institutions , our rolling hills , grey warships glinting in the south coast sun and the noise that 43,000 Argyle fans make on match day . I want to talk about the gritty determination of staff at one of the biggest hospitals in the country , and I want to talk about hope . I will frame this speech with two principles that I lived by during my time in the Royal Marines , principles that are well known amongst the armed forces community in Plymouth . First , a leader must be a dealer of hope . When the chips are down , leaders have to step forward and give hope . I believe that is our job in Parliament too . In Plymouth , communities come together to give each other hope . There is immense strength and resilience in the streets , the housing estates , the front rooms and wherever folks get together and organise to change the lives they and their neighbours are living , making simple , tangible changes by addressing the needs in front of them . We have Whitleigh Big Local , the Four Greens Community Trust and Connecting Youth CIC , to name just a few , working in partnership with the local community to improve the things that matter and to bring hope . I want to use my position in this House to empower our community to effect change and generate hope that life will get better and that families can be lifted out of poverty . Today , relative child poverty in Plymouth Moor View is at 23 % , set against the regional figure of 17 % . I will not accept rising child poverty , because the second principle that I live by , one I believe a lot of us share , is this : “ The standard you walk past is the standard you accept . ” If we see something that we know is wrong and we keep walking , we are effectively saying we are happy with that situation . The harder option is not to walk past , but to take action . Derriford hospital in Plymouth serves almost 2 million people across Devon and Cornwall . I have met the nurses , paramedics , doctors and volunteers , who do fantastic work under immense pressure . They are people who do not just walk past . However , the hospital is up against it : in June alone , there were 5,000 instances where a patient waited more than four hours in A&E. That represents a series of personal tragedies for the patients affected . With the new Government , I will work tirelessly to change that story . Away from the hospital , the beating heart of our city is Plymouth Argyle football club , which is in its second season now in the championship , making it one of the top clubs in the English football league . Yet in Plymouth , many families struggle to afford access to sport for their kids . I am a keen footballer and I believe in the power of sport to set young people up for life . I will use my platform to improve access to sport in Plymouth , because a standard where this country has the finest football leagues , watched the world over , but our own youngsters can not afford to play is not a standard I will walk past . I pay tribute to the excellent work that the Argyle community trust and the Plymouth football boot bank do already to broaden access to sport in Plymouth . As a former Royal Marines commando , it is a particular privilege to represent the city that is home to not only the largest naval base in western Europe , but the Royal Marines , who are still headquartered in Plymouth . Ours is a city where so many residents have served in uniform , and I take this opportunity to thank every single one of them for their service and dedication . I also pay tribute to my predecessor for his heartfelt efforts to raise the profile of the veterans agenda . For centuries , Plymouth has had a proud military history , and the Prime Minister recently called it “ the frontline of defence in this country ” . Navy , Marines and Army personnel have deployed from Plymouth for hundreds of years . The tradition of proud military service runs through our city like the writing in a stick of rock . Now , as we find ourselves as a country in another moment of critical international instability , Plymouth is again a keystone of our national security . Devonport dockyard is the home port for the frigates , survey vessels and amphibious shipping that are crucial for our safety . It is also where the submarines that host our nuclear deterrent are maintained , and will be for generations to come . We are also home to highly skilled small and medium - sized enterprises such as MSubs — makers of unmanned submersible craft used in the most special military projects — Barden bearings and Collins Aerospace , whose cutting - edge engineering is integral to the UK ’s modern weapons systems . From our military institutions and our manufacturing base to our hospital , our football club and our dockyard , we stand up and we serve in Plymouth . We give a lot to this nation , but for all this — if I can borrow a phrase from a friend and a constant source of advice , my hon . Friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — Plymouth does not get its fair share . I will work tirelessly with the Government to change that , because in Labour we respect service , and ours will be a Government of service — a Government of hope . As I served my country before in uniform , so I will serve my city now in office . As I was trained to do in the Marines , I will strive to be a dealer of hope . When it comes to taking action , I will remember , along with colleagues on both sides of the House , that the standard we walk past is the standard we accept .