Britain has a long and proud tradition of providing asylum to those fleeing war and persecution , and that patriotic principle must always remain . However , we must be honest : too many people are arriving in our country with no legal right to be here , and they must be returned . Further still , they must be prevented from entering our country altogether . The numbers are too high ; they must come down . The alternative is unacceptable . Towns such as Hartlepool are targeted by private providers of asylum accommodation because of our lower housing costs . Those providers are profiting from this crisis and putting a burden on Hartlepool ’s public services . Local schools , hospitals and social services are forced to absorb the consequences of a broken system — that is the reality that we face , and it must change . The Bill signals the Government ’s intention to do just that . Instead of open borders , we will have a Border Security Command . Instead of a soft touch , we will have record deportations . Instead of expensive gimmicks , we will have far - reaching new powers that will put the boot of the state on the throat of the criminal gangs whose trade , let us not forget , is the trafficking of human beings . The Bill is about restoring control and taking decisive action to fix the system . Hartlepool people are open , generous and welcoming . I have personally seen their fundamental decency on display in communities across our town , including at the Salaam Community Centre on Murray Street , where Nancy Pout and her amazing team took to the streets after last summer ’s rights and , alongside volunteers and council workers , cleaned up the devastation left by mindless thugs . They symbolise fundamental Hartlepool values . Those values include fairness , which is why I believe that transparency in these matters is essential . Home Office figures provided to me by the House of Commons Library show that , as of September 2024 , Hartlepool is supporting 50 asylum seekers per 10,000 people . The neighbouring , larger local authority is hosting just seven per 10,000 . There are local authorities up and down this county for which the figure is zero . That can not be right . After 14 years of austerity for our public services , it must not be the most deprived areas of our country that carry the biggest burden . When the break clauses in the asylum accommodation contracts come up in 2026 , I urge Ministers to use them and spread the burden fairly as we fix the system and bring the numbers down . This is about taking back control of our asylum and immigration system , not through slogans and broken promises , but through real enforceable action . The people of Hartlepool , and communities across the UK , deserve nothing less .