Let me rattle through the right hon . and learned Gentleman ’s questions . With regard to the matter covered in the preceding statement , I am sure he will appreciate that , as there is an ongoing investigation — as you also said , Mr Speaker — I am limited in what I can say specifically . But I have been emphatically clear in our engagement with China that we will not accept any interference in our democracy and parliamentary system . That includes the sanctioning of MPs and malign activity such as the type of activity alleged to have taken place . I can absolutely confirm that the Foreign Secretary raised those issues on his recent visit , and I reinforced that in my meeting at the G20 . The right hon . and learned Gentleman went on to raise the announcement about the partnership for global infrastructure and investment . What he failed to mention in his criticism was that that initiative — the PGII — was created by the UK under our G7 presidency . Far from being something that we are not part of , we were the ones who made sure that we were there at its inception . Again , he is , as ever , jumping on the latest bandwagon that he can find . The PGII initiative will contain a range of different projects . This particular one was also not signed by Canada , Japan or Italy , for example . Each and every country will participate in a range of projects . What did we do to make our contribution ? As I said , we made the single largest pledge this country has ever made to the green climate fund . Why ? Because it is important that we play our part in helping countries make the transition to net zero — something that we have led on previously and , because of that commitment , we will continue to lead on . What else did we do ? We decided to work with other countries to improve global food security , something that African nations in particular have called on us to do . They have welcomed our leadership in hosting a summit later this year , which will tackle the cause at its root , improving crop yields and the resilience of food supplies globally . I could go on . As ever , the right hon . and learned Gentleman tries to find something to score a cheap political point , and completely and utterly misunderstands what this country is doing . As ever , he would prefer to talk this country down than recognise the contribution we are making . I am happy to address the right hon . and learned Gentleman ’s comments on the trade deal . I thought they were telling — he asked , why do we not just sign it , why is it not done ? I had a flashback to all those conversations when we were leaving the EU . His approach back then was just to sign any deal that was offered to us . We know where that would have led . The right thing to do for the British people is to fight hard for the things that we need . We only need a deal that works for the British people and delivers on our priorities . That is why it is right not to rush these things , as he would do , clearly . We do not put arbitrary deadlines on them . I take the time to make sure that they are right for the British people . Our track record is there : we are the first European nation to accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — something else the right hon . and learned Gentleman failed to mention . That is the most exciting , dynamic trade bloc that exists in the world . The Asia - Pacific accounts for 50 % of the world ’s population . Sixty per cent . of goods trade passes through that region , and it will account for over half of global growth in the coming decades . Now that we have left the EU , we are able to join that trade bloc , and it is excited to have us . Lastly , on the right hon . and learned Gentleman ’s point about Brexit , again he failed to point out that since we left the single market we have grown faster than France and Germany . I will end where I started : as ever , when it comes to these things , he is determined to talk Britain down . We are demonstrating that Britain is leading on the global stage and delivering for the British people .