Crime in Hyndburn and Haslingden is currently out of control . Robbery has skyrocketed in my constituency by 75 % in the past year , which is far worse than the already shocking 17 % increase that we have seen across Lancashire . Shoplifting has soared by 70 % , which , again , is significantly worse than the 23 % rise across the county . Those numbers are not just statistics ; they represent victims — business owners whose livelihoods are threatened , families who feel unsafe and communities torn apart by lawlessness . Indeed , just last week local businesses in Accrington saw around 10 break - ins . Almost half of my constituents—44%—will experience violent crime . That is unacceptable , and I am speaking here today because I refuse to accept it any longer . Just over the weekend , an awful video has sadly been circulating on social media of yet another terrible incident of violent crime in Hyndburn . This Government ’s Crime and Policing Bill is the biggest crackdown on crime in decades . We are taking back our town centres from thugs and thieves and restoring respect for law and order , giving our communities and police the tools they need to fight back . For too long the crimes that have made Accrington ’s town centre almost lawless , the so - called low - level offences , have been ignored . When shoplifting , antisocial behaviour and street crime go unpunished , our high streets suffer , our economy declines , and our community starts to lose hope . Accrington was once a thriving hub . It has been neglected for too long , but these new powers for the police are key to turning that around . The Bill delivers real action . The police will no longer need a warrant to search premises when stolen goods are tracked electronically , and there will be no more safe havens for criminals . Respect orders will clamp down on public drinking and drug taking , ensuring that our streets are no longer places of disorder . Officers will have the power to seize nuisance vehicles — such as the off - road bikes I saw on Friday tearing up our parks in Rishton — on the spot . Crucially , the days of treating thefts under £ 200 with effective immunity are over . Stealing is stealing , and criminals will be held to account . It is also welcome that the Government listened to the campaign organised by the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and other shop workers for the introduction of a new offence of assaulting a shop worker in this vital Bill . The Labour Government are not just tough on crime ; they are investing in solutions . I welcome the provision of 13,000 new police officers to ensure that every community has its named police officer . This is part of the Government ’s £ 200 million investment , which will deliver a 6.6 % funding uplift in Lancashire . Enough is enough : the people of Hyndburn and Haslingden deserve safe streets , a thriving town centre , and the right to live without fear . The Bill delivers that , and I am proud to support it . I welcome many of the measures in the Bill , particularly those concerning knife crime and the protection of shop workers who all too often bear the brunt of antisocial behaviour . However , one of the biggest deterrents for criminals is the certainty of being caught , and reductions in police numbers nationally are as wrong as they are locally . In Avon and Somerset , the former Conservative police and crime commissioner cut PCSOs by a further 80 last year — a massive 28 % reduction — and closed our Taunton police station.[Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c. 2WC.](Correction ) I welcome clause 4 ’s provisions on public space protection orders , which I will come on to . I welcome the commitment to deliver 13,000 extra officers of various kinds , but worrying for me is the fact that my constituents have come to see me about their relatives who are serving police officers . Civilians have been replaced by officers in uniform doing the same civilian jobs , just so that it can be claimed that police numbers have increased . I hope the Minister will make sure that that does not continue to occur with the new recruitment , which is very welcome . Unless officers are seen in our communities and on the streets , they will not deter or catch the criminals we need them to catch . Last autumn , I was contacted by businesses in Castle Green in Taunton , which are at their wit ’s end because of the antisocial behaviour in the historic centre of our county town . I contacted the chief constable straightaway . I am really grateful to Avon and Somerset officers for the efforts they have put in , as I am to the chamber of commerce in Taunton , which has raised the general issue of town centre crime and convened the safe streets forum that I attended last week , but it is clear that we need to deter antisocial behaviour and crime where it is taking place . That is proven by the fact that Lib Dem - run Taunton town council has just appointed a street marshal , who is on duty in our town centre . I spent the afternoon with Nick last Friday . He is doing an excellent job and covering a huge range of work , from people climbing all over the rooftops to retrieving thousands of pounds ’ worth of stock by simply asking the person responsible to hand it over . He must have been quite persuasive in asking the individual to do that . I congratulate Nick , our street marshal , but when I returned to Castle Green with him , it was clear that the antisocial behaviour problems there have become intractable . I therefore suggest that we need to work with Somerset council to get a public space protection order , and I hope the Government will support its enforcement . Too many of our great community events are marred by the antisocial few , and we need to tackle that . We need the public space of Castle Green , with its superb independent market , our famous Castle Hotel , the scheduled ancient monument , which is the castle itself , and the Museum of Somerset where soon people will be able to see the Chew valley hoard of silver coins from the Norman conquest . I can not use those coins to pay for the enforcement of the public space protection order , but I hope it will have Government support so that we can ensure that key public spaces are not subject to conquest by those who would disobey the law , wreak havoc among local people , damage livelihoods and tarnish the generally superb reputation of our county town .