I think the Climate Change Committee is actually saying that its most ambitious scenario , which we should be aiming for , is for us to cut the use of gas by 90 % . Are we going to carry on using North sea oil and gas ? The question for the hon . Gentleman , and for the whole House , is this : do we choose , for the future , to carry on drilling every last drop ? That is the Government ’s policy , in contravention of all the scientific advice , which is that we will end up in a 3 ° world — needing billions of pounds of taxpayer subsidy to bring about that investment through persuasion , and diverting investment from the private sector . Personally , I do not think that that is the right choice . The lesson of this crisis is one that the Government should have learnt , and one that other countries around the world have learnt : the only way to get energy security is to sprint for clean power . That is why the Government ’s onshore wind ban is such a disaster . That is why their offshore wind auction is such a disaster . That is why their energy efficiency failures are such a disaster . This Bill neither protects us on price nor gives us energy security . Here is the thing , the Bill is not motivated by millions of people lying awake at night , worrying about the cost of living crisis ; it is motivated by a Prime Minister lying awake at night , worrying about the Conservative party crisis . The interesting thing is that this Bill was planned well before the right hon . Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) became Energy Secretary . It is the last desperate throw of the dice by what we might call the No . 10 galaxy brains , to use climate change as what they call a “ wedge issue . ” They say this to the newspapers all the time . Series 1 of this new strategy was aired in September , when the party of Churchill and Thatcher became the peddlers of wacky conspiracy theories they found on the internet : abolishing the mythical seven bins ; ending the imaginary threat of compulsory car sharing ; saying no to invented conspiracy theories on 15 - minute cities ; and fighting the fictional meat tax . And now we have a sequel . No longer a few throw - away conspiracy theories , this is now the central strategy of their legislative programme . Members should not take my word for it . It is what the Prime Minister ’s advisers brief to the papers day after day . One paper I read on Monday reported that the Prime Minister wants to “ weaponise climate change ” as a wedge issue . Where the British people see an energy crisis forcing up their bills , the Government see a wedge issue . Where the British people ask how they can have liveable towns and cities with good transport , the Government see a wedge issue . Where the British people worry about the effect of the climate crisis on their kids and grandkids , the Government see a wedge issue . The point is that the Government can not really deny it , because they know this is what they are saying every day . “ We think there is a big opportunity for the Conservative party to try to create division on climate change . ” That is why the Prime Minister uses words like “ eco - zealots . ” It is all very transparent . They are locked in the boot of a strategy . Whether they agree with it or not , that is what is happening . Certainly , and I will come on to just how much funding has been made available . I draw the hon . Gentleman ’s attention to the National Lottery Heritage Fund , which has provided £ 454 million recently to a couple of projects . Moreover , the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities , through levelling - up funding , has provided more than £ 33 million to another couple of projects . That is perhaps an area that my hon . Friend could also look into . I know very well that he has previously been incredibly successful in securing levelling - up funding . As a champion of the Morecambe Eden project , I understand that £ 50 billion has been raised through the levelling - up project in his area , so I am well aware of his capability in that field . In response to the hon . Member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , let me say that I would be delighted to look into funding opportunities , specifically around access . I will write to him about that , because I am not familiar with what might be available at this time . On the wider funding for canals and inland waterways , we know — because my hon . Friend has just explained — how important these national heritage assets are , providing many public benefits . I am also fully aware of how important it is to have access to water and green spaces for our physical health and mental wellbeing , not to mention the benefits that they provide for nature . Those benefits are set out in our Environmental Improvement Plan . Halting the decline of nature by 2030 and increasing its abundance thereafter is the apex priority following the Environment Act 2023 . Canals and waterways , rivers , lakes , coastal areas and streams are fundamental to that . People enjoy being by canals and waterways and using them for leisure and recreation , as well as , in the case of canals , for their historical value . They form an important part of our natural environment by providing the green corridors along which biodiversity can flourish , as well as contributing to the growth of local economies , such as through domestic tourism . The Canal & River Trust reports that there were nearly 900 million visits to its canals last year , many of which were repeat visits — with around 10 million individual users each month . That gives us a real sense of the scale and popularity of our canals . I pay tribute to the Canal & River Trust for the work that it does day in , day out to look after the network . Our navigation authorities have an important role to play into the future as well , because they will make sure that our nation ’s key infrastructure is resilient to climate change . As we have set out in our national adaptation plan of how we will mitigate and adapt to the risks set out by Climate Change Committee , these waterways may suffer the consequences of climate change more than others . Importantly , the work that the navigation authorities do will help us meet our net zero targets through sustainable transport and energy generation , and help to achieve water security through flood mitigation measures and water transfers . I will write to my hon . Friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale with the specifics of any funding analysis that has been done . As I say , I am not the Minister responsible for inland waterways , but I will take the time to write a detailed analysis if I can . I may require further information from the volunteers and the partnerships that he mentioned . The Canal & River Trust and the Environment Agency are the two bodies that receive direct funding , and it is important to be clear that we will continue to provide significant funding . The Canal & River Trust was set up in 2012 as a charity independent of Government . The idea was to replace the publicly owned British Waterways and free it from public spending constraints . The trust owns and manages a network of some 2,000 miles of canals and rivers in England and Wales . The original endowment in 2012 was £ 450 million , but it is now worth £ 1 billion . From 2027 , £ 400 million is proposed to be granted over a 10 - year period . We will continue to support the Canal & River Trust , but we certainly encourage it to work with others to make the most of the commercial opportunities as well . Now that the trust is free of public sector financing constraints , it can source alternative revenue streams , including charitable donations and legacies , charity tax relief , third - party project funding and borrowing on the financial markets , while continuing to receive a substantial Government grant . The trust was also endowed by the Government with a significant property and investment portfolio from British Waterways . As I said , it was originally worth £ 450 million and is now worth over £ 1 billion . That is the result of sound investment management by the trust . To provide further support and financial certainty for the trust while it was becoming established , the Government agreed in 2012 to provide a 15 - year grant of around £ 740 million . An important part of the 2012 transfer from British Waterways was the memorandum of understanding signed by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the trust , which contained a clear objective that the trust would progressively move towards greater self - sufficiency and reduced reliance on public funding , through its £ 1 billion property and investment portfolio and freedom from public sector financial constraints . Following a Government review of current grant funding that was announced in July this year , a further substantial grant funding package has been announced that will provide £ 400 million across the 10 - year period from 2027 . Importantly , that will bring the total amount of Government support for the trust to around £ 1.1 billion since 2012 . I also want to discuss the funding for the Environment Agency ; as I mentioned , there are two bodies that look after the network of canals and rivers . The Environment Agency ’s 630 miles of navigations are funded in the form of an annual grant in aid . For the three - year period from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 , that amounts to £ 73 million . I hope I have set out that this Government really have supported canals and rivers , whether through the Canal & River Trust or the Environment Agency , but that there are other ways in which those organisations can bring in additional funding , as we have heard . To focus on the project that my hon . Friend is progressing , which is the most important thing , I can not commend too highly the volunteers and their ambitions for their area . The project has such importance for the local community , because it will not only bring back something that was last used in 1947 , but will bring benefits such as tackling climate change , improving people ’s physical and mental wellbeing , and supporting biodiversity . That is absolutely what we should be doing . It supports the targets of the environmental improvement plan and the work of groups such as Sustrans , public rights of way and national trails . We all recognise the benefits of being near water and appreciating nature — and , goodness me , we all need to get a little bit more active . I confirm that I will write to my hon . Friend with the detailed analysis of the funding for the project so far , and I will take a look at other funding streams as well . Most importantly , I look forward to visiting him , perhaps in Kendal , to congratulate the volunteers on their hard work and success to date . It is brilliant to end today ’s sitting with some wonderful good news about a really successful big society mission . Question put and agreed to . House adjourned .