It is a pleasure to speak in this important debate and express my support for the Bill . For far too long , school children have borne the brunt of academisation . Fortunately , the Labour Government in Wales rejected this model , but , having been a teacher on the border for most of my working life and a national executive member of the NASUWT , I have seen at first hand the negative impact of academies becoming the default model , while local authorities have been sidelined . Since the introduction of the Academies Act 2010 , the freedom for academies and free schools to set their own pay , terms and conditions has led to the exploitation of teachers . For example , teachers at Ark schools are expected to work 1,657 hours more annually than a maintained school teacher , while earning £ 7 less per hour . The lack of national consistency not only allows these schools to undervalue and overwork staff but undermines basic rights such as pension schemes , maternity and sick pay . Our Bill will tackle those disparities by extending the statutory pay and conditions framework to all teachers in academies , ensuring greater consistency and fairness between academies and maintained schools . There is also the issue of admission policies . Too many schools misuse their control over admissions to break with inclusive local authority policies , selecting what they consider to be a more favourable intake of students . The Bill ’s extension of the power to direct admissions to academies will ensure that local authorities can secure places for hard - to - place and vulnerable students , rather than allowing academies to exercise shameful selective admissions . Furthermore , by ending academy presumption , the Bill takes a significant step towards increasing academy accountability , empowering local authorities to better serve the needs of their communities , particularly helping SEND students and reducing reliance on unaffordable independent providers . I hope to see the severe disparity between teachers ’ pay and the high salaries of academy CEOs reviewed and addressed in future education legislation . We must ensure that funding is directed where it is most needed : to teaching and learning . This Bill marks an historic first step towards creating an accountable and fair education system that will benefit all our children .