I remember well the UN rapporteur saying that the Conservatives were engaged in cruelty towards people in this country who needed help the most . What I can not fathom is why a Labour Government are not first putting in the support and then letting it bed in , which is what will reduce the welfare bill and increase employment levels . The impact of any cuts would then not be as drastic . The starting point should never be cuts before proper support . The review led by my right hon . Friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who I have a lot of respect for , is starting to look a little bit predetermined as the change in criteria will happen at the same time as the review concludes . It remains unclear how existing claimants with fluctuating conditions will be assessed , and the impact that these changes will have on the carer ’s allowance . However , we do know that disability living allowance claimants and those on other legacy benefits will be assessed under the new criteria , putting almost 800,000 disabled children at risk of losing support . The north - east region has the highest number of disabled people in England , and the number of people searching for work outpaces the number of available jobs . How on earth will cutting the health element of universal credit incentivise those people to go out and find a job that does not even exist ? Since PIP is an in - work benefit , restricting the very support that could keep people in work will only help to increase unemployment . All of this for £ 2.5 billion of savings , when we know that savings can be made elsewhere and when we know that those with the broadest shoulders could pay more . Instead , we are once again making disabled people pay the price for the economic mess that the Conservative party left us . As it stands , we are being asked to vote blind today . There is no new Bill , no new explanatory notes and no fully updated impact assessment . There is no time for sufficient scrutiny , and no formal consultation has taken place with disabled people . The majority of employment support will not be in place until the end of the decade , and Access to Work remains worse than ever before . We are creating a two - tier , possibly three - tier , benefit system , and we know for certain that disabled people are going to be worse off . This is not a responsible way for any of us to legislate . It is predicted that disabled people will lose on average £ 4,500 per year , yet we know they already need an extra £ 1,095 per month just to have the same standard of living as those in non - disabled households . There is a reason why 138 organisations representing disabled people are against this Bill , and there is a reason why not a single organisation has come out in support of it . I am pleading with MPs today to please do not do this . For those on my own Labour Benches , staying loyal to your party today may feel good in this place , but once you go home and are in your individual constituency , the reality of this will hit — and it will hit very hard .