Thank you for calling me to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . Before I do , may I commend Figen Murray and her family and friends for the excellent campaign they have continued , completely selflessly ? I am sure it will save the lives of hundreds , if not thousands of people . They are a great example to us all . I confess to being unusually nervous — as indeed I should be — as I address my honourable colleagues across the House for the first time as the first Member of Parliament for Tiverton and Minehead . I would like to begin by thanking the two previous MPs for Tiverton and Minehead . My fellow Liberal Democrat , my hon . Friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , has happily been returned by his constituents as their MP , where he will continue to be a hard - working local champion . I am also grateful for the 23 years of service that my predecessor in Bridgwater and West Somerset , Ian Liddell - Grainger , in his own inimitable style , gave to my constituents in that part of my constituency . He is a doting grandfather , who will now have more time to spend with his grandchildren . I also want to thank Rebecca Pow , the former Member for Taunton Deane , who is a prolific gardener — vegetables are a particular favourite , I understand — and whose constituency encompassed some of the villages and towns now in Tiverton and Minehead , as well as the constituency of Taunton and Wellington . As a new Member of Parliament , this place , even though it bears a resemblance to my alma mater , is a difficult and different environment to master . I know that I speak for all new Members when I thank all members of staff of the parliamentary estate , from Doorkeepers to police officers to catering and cleaning staff . I thank them all for their warm welcome , and for their tolerance and patience with the numerous questions they answer with humour and understanding . Thank you all . Since September last year , my team , known as “ Team Terrific and The Stalwarts ” , have knocked on nearly 31,000 doors , delivered hundreds of thousands of leaflets , letters and surveys and spoken to over 12,000 residents . I know what matters to the people of Tiverton and Minehead because I have asked them . I was raised in Somerset and have spent most of my adult life in Devon , from Holcombe Rogus via Hemyock to Bampton in the Tiverton and Minehead constituency . My husband and I chose to raise our family in Devon . In fact , all four of our children are born Devonians . Our eldest sons , Henry and Tom , were born in the old hospital in Tiverton . It is my sincere intention to support the NHS and social care systems in Tiverton and Minehead by keeping our local hospitals open in Minehead , Tiverton and Williton , and by supporting all our GP surgeries . Ours is a very rural area and the need to keep local hospitals open is especially pressing given limited transport links and a higher - than - average elderly population . As mine is a rural and often disconnected constituency , transport improvements are one of my key priorities . With that at the forefront of my mind , I have convened a meeting with Peninsula Transport , the body that oversees all public transport in Devon and Somerset . Along with my transport adviser , David Northey , who has a deep history in this area as a former head of strategic planning at Great Western Railway , I have been hard at work for my constituents , putting together a transport plan and highlighting the challenges and solutions for rail and bus services across Tiverton and Minehead . Minehead train station desperately needs linking to the main line at Taunton ; I know that my hon . Friend and neighbour the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) would agree . We need also to secure the number 25 and 28 bus services in the north of the constituency and look carefully at rural bus routes to service the villages of Exmoor , such as Exford , Withypool and Winsford , along with local towns , particularly Wiveliscombe . Those will be key parts of that new plan for the local area . Poor public transport provision creates a particular barrier to schoolchildren and students in Tiverton and Minehead . Some have no bus to take them to school , no way to walk to school or no way to cycle to get there . Other than the small A - level provision at West Somerset college , there is no — I repeat , no — sixth - form provision in my constituency . Students have to travel to Exeter , Taunton or Bridgwater if they wish to pursue their studies . That limits their aspirations and ability to succeed . Shockingly , West Somerset ranks 324th out of 324 on the social mobility index , and such transport problems explain some of why that is . However , teachers and heads of primary schools across the constituency and of secondary schools in Tiverton , Minehead , Williton and Uffculme do not lack aspiration for their pupils . They are working daily to improve access to better education . That includes campaigning to have facilities worthy of 21st - century educational standards . The first letter I wrote , within days of getting elected on 5 July , was to our new Secretary of State for Education , asking for a meeting to discuss the dire state of Tiverton high school . Nearly 25 years ago — I repeat , 25 years ago — Tiverton high school was promised a new build . The previous Labour Government put it on their priority list . The last Conservative Government sat on their hands and did nothing . The school is deemed by the Environment Agency to be a “ danger of death ” from flooding . There is asbestos in the sports hall , and children are being taught in dining and communal areas . It has capacity for 1,300 pupils but needs capacity for 1,800 . Given the pledges made by our new Prime Minister and his commitment to schools , I know that I will get a fair hearing from the Secretary of State for Education . I hope that she will agree to meet a delegation of staff , parents and children from Tiverton high school in the near future . Community plays a crucial role in Tiverton and Minehead . There are wonderful organisations providing support and help , from community food banks to support groups for carers , to Rotary clubs , conservation groups and the environmental networks with which I work to monitor and prevent the pollution in our rivers and on our beaches . Those organisations all make Tiverton and Minehead the wonderful , beautiful , special part of the UK that it is . When they meet to discuss important community issues , the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill will ensure that they are safe . However , my party has previously had concerns about the impact on smaller - scale venues ; I am delighted to hear today that the approach is more light touch than expected . As a former director of the National Farmers Union , I have a deep passion for and understanding of my local farming community , who are spread across the constituency and facing harder challenges than they have for generations . That is thanks to the disastrous Brexit deal foisted upon them by the previous Conservative Government . In the face of climate change , increased rainfall , dryer summers and the rising cost of energy , they battle on . To them I say , “ I will always back my farming community . Let ’s work together to secure a future for farming across Exmoor , West Somerset and mid Devon . Come to my monthly farmers ’ surgeries so that I can represent my farming community to the very best of my abilities . ” Becoming an MP has been my ambition since I was 17 , when I joined the Liberal party at school . It has taken me four attempts over 43 years of campaigning , but now that dream has become a reality . Without my family , it would have been impossible . As a professional woman , I have broken several glass ceilings thanks to my inspirational grandmothers , Mabel and Jesse , who offered wise counsel ; to Miss Whaite , now Mrs Michael Limb , my Latin teacher , who kept me sane at boarding school ; and especially to my mother , who has always believed in me . Mummy , thank you — I love you . I am so proud to have her here today with my husband and our eldest son in the Gallery , so that she can see this moment . Yesterday I celebrated my three - score - years birthday ; I say to my Conservative colleagues , whose maths skills in government were found somewhat wanting , that that is 60 . I share my birthday with Margaret Hilda Thatcher , who must be one of the best recruiting agents for the Liberal and Labour parties . I am proud that I share nothing with her other than a birthday . My passion for politics flows from my compassion for my fellow human beings — whoever and wherever they are , irrespective of background , race , religion , colour , gender , sexuality or ability . It is impossible to mention everyone and everything in one ’s maiden speech , but if there is one thing that I wish my constituents to know it is this : they are my world . I feel humbled and honoured to have been elected to represent Tiverton and Minehead in Parliament . They can help me do my job by coming to my surgeries at Tiverton and Minehead , Wiveliscombe and on Exmoor , by ringing my office and my staff , and by writing us letters and emails . I am at their service .