Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allowing me the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . It is an honour to follow the right hon . Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , having served with his brother on my local council 20 years ago . I wish to add to his tributes to Sir David Amess and Jo Cox . I would like to start by paying tribute to my predecessor , Sir David Evennett , who represented our local area for 33 years , first in the former Erith and Crayford constituency and then in Bexleyheath and Crayford . He took a keen interest in education , serving twice as a Parliamentary Private Secretary in the Education Department . He was elected with the other Sir David in 1983 and they were close friends , and it is apt that this debate is named after Sir David Amess . Sir David Evennett was the only Conservative Member of Parliament to lose their seat in 1997 and then regain it at the second attempt in 2005 , which says a great deal about his tenacity , and I wish him and Marilyn a happy and healthy retirement . I note that when Sir David Evennett made his maiden speech in 1983 , he followed and complimented the then Member for Sedgefield , who of course went on to be a great Prime Minister for 10 years , so I say to the right hon . Member for Rayleigh and Wickford , please feel no pressure in the years ahead . At this election , my constituency of Bexleyheath and Crayford gained parts of the Northumberland Heath and West Heath wards that were previously represented by my hon . Friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) . Given the new boundaries , it is a privilege to follow former Members who have represented parts of my constituency , including Jennie Adamson , Norman Dodds , Jim Wellbeloved , Sir Ted Heath , John Austin , Nigel Beard and Teresa Pearce . It is an honour to have been elected to this House and I am indebted to those constituents who have sent me here , and I shall work tirelessly for them as well as for those who did not vote for me . I have lived in the London borough of Bexley all of my life , attended local schools and served as a councillor for 20 years . My constituents include former school friends , former work colleagues , my parents , who are here today , and my grandmother . My constituency is located at the south - east tip of London , with my constituents looking both west into the capital and east across the Kent boundary . My family roots are like those of many of my constituents : families from south London who moved a bit further east , with my maternal roots in Southwark and my paternal roots in Plumstead . We in the constituency are proud of two amazing heritage assets : the grade 1 listed Hall Place , built in 1537 ; and the Red House , designed by Philip Webb and William Morris in 1859 . We are also proud of our contribution to the hits of my childhood , having been the birthplace of Boy George and Kate Bush . We have an industrial past , with the Thames at the north of the constituency , but today most jobs are in manufacturing , retail and hospitality . However , that past helped change history and ensure that Britain is the country it is today . The Vickers works were located in Crayford for 101 years , from 1884 , and during the world wars they manufactured the Vickers machine gun , aircraft , naval gun laying equipment , and the casings for the Barnes Wallis bouncing bomb of Dambusters fame . Famously , it was where the British aviators John Alcock and Arthur Brown manufactured the first Vickers Vimy bomber , with the first 12 manufactured in Crayford , while it was the thirteenth , manufactured elsewhere , which in 1919 made the first non - stop transatlantic flight . That history of our constituency continues today with my constituents across Barnehurst , Bexleyheath , Crayford , Northumberland Heath , Slade Green , and the small parts of Abbey Wood , Belvedere , Erith and Welling that I represent , working hard and delivering for our country . Every day I speak to local residents who work in the public sector , and I know how grateful their neighbours are for the work they do and on which we all rely . My constituents rely on train services provided by Thameslink and Southeastern , which have a depot in Slade Green where they maintain rolling stock and train staff . It is those railway workers who keep my constituents on the move . Those commuters work in the financial and professional jobs that London relies on , but also , importantly , in shops , restaurants and hotels , keeping London ’s economy moving . And if we take a quick glance around any road in my constituency , we see a variety of white vans and black taxis , demonstrating that my constituents are the workers that London relies on to get them from A to B , and the builders , plumbers , brickies and lift engineers who will help us grow our economy . But there is one set of workers on which our community really does rely : our volunteers and carers . Today , my day started as many others ’ will have done : I lifted my child from her bed ; I changed her nappy , dressed her , fed her and tidied her hair ; and then I ensured that she was in her wheelchair and ready for her transport to collect her for school . Our children are twins but will lead very different paths in life . One talks of a future in work and the journeys she will make ; the other , after many years of work from professionals , can now manage to talk , but her language is limited to about a dozen words . The eldest of our twins has cerebral palsy and a range of complex disabilities . Like other carers , the greatest concern that my wife and I have is what will happen to her when we are gone . Many of us know what it was like to have to work and educate our children at home for months during the covid pandemic . In our case , this was stretched by the fact that one of our children requires full - time care , our family network and carers were not allowed into our home , and my wife was undergoing chemotherapy at the time — she is now thankfully recovered , due to the fantastic work of our incredible NHS . I can assure Members that in my time in this House I will be the greatest of champions for carers and the disabled , because I really do know the challenges that families in our position face on a daily basis : having to fight the local authority because either it has not transferred the money to pay the carer , or it is not paying at a rate that meets minimum wage requirements ; the constant battle to ensure that our child has a wheelchair that works ; the arguments over which part of the public sector will fund the person required to cut our child ’s food at lunchtime because the education , health and care plan is not clear on the matter . I could take the easy path and sit at home rather than be here taking difficult decisions to fix the inheritance bequeathed to this Government , but I believe that this House really does need people like me , who know how badly reform is needed in the special educational needs system and for the rights of carers . My constituents , like me , rely on volunteers and charities across the constituency . I am not going to name them , because as I am bound to miss one out , but those charities know that I have the greatest admiration for them , having worked alongside them for many years . They make such an important contribution across Bexleyheath and Crayford , and I look forward to continuing to work with them , our faith groups , businesses and my incredible constituents to deliver the change that our community and our country so desperately need . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to start by congratulating hon . Friends and other hon . Members on some fantastic maiden speeches today , but also on the many I have heard since the election in July . They have made me proud to be British . However , notwithstanding those incredible speeches and hearing about the amazing and beautiful places across the UK , I would still argue that Southampton , the place where I was born and bred , where I have always lived and which I have the honour to represent as the Member of Parliament for Southampton Test , is the best city on earth . Listen , I know it is a bold claim and many will have heard me make it before , but Southampton is where the world meets Britain . We have helped shape the world and we continue to do so , from the pilgrims who set sail from Southampton on the Mayflower over 400 years ago in search of a new life in America , to being the home of the Spitfire , which helped to defeat fascism in Europe during world war two . It was the University of Southampton that invented the internet as we know it today . And were those achievements not enough , Southampton also gave the world the fishfinger sandwich — you’re welcome . We are a city rich with culture , from our medieval walls that protected our nation in times of conflict to our award - winning parks , most notably Southampton common , which are the green lungs of our city , and our renowned art galleries and our theatre , the Mayflower . Southampton is where Jane Austen was schooled and lived , and it inspired some of her masterpieces . Even today , Southampton continues to produce great talent , from the singer Craig David to “ MasterChef ” winner Shelina Permalloo . Southampton is also a world - leading maritime city that is integral to the UK economy . The port of Southampton handles over £ 71 billion - worth of trade every year , while also serving as the busiest cruise port in Europe . We are a city of political firsts . Many will know that our country ’s first Prime Minister of colour is from Southampton . I was the first female Sikh council leader in the UK . And the former MP for Southampton Test , my good friend Dr Alan Whitehead , was the first , and I believe the only politician , to have a song dedicated to them by none other than Led Zeppelin — clearly , they have a “ whole lotta love ” for Alan . Now , paying tribute to Alan Whitehead as my predecessor in this Chamber is an honour . He has been one of those unique politicians who was universally liked , valued , and respected on both sides of the House . His knowledge on climate change and green energy is unparalleled . He is essentially the Taylor Swift of the energy sector . [ Laughter . ] I ’m pleased you got it . He leaves behind a legacy , not only of shaping Government policy on energy right now but of benefiting future generations , for which we all owe him a huge debt of gratitude . As I approach my 40th birthday in the coming days—[Hon . Members : “ Surely not ! ” ] I know ! It is incredible to think that Alan has served our city for as long as I have been alive , first as leader of the council and then as a Member of Parliament . He has done so with unwavering dedication , integrity and kindness , meaning that he will be sorely missed by many . I am acutely aware that I have very big shoes to fill . Alan , and the former Member of Parliament for Southampton Itchen , John Denham , have both been instrumental in helping me to reach this place today . Indeed , John , on a visit to my school fair , awarded me first prize , when I was only eight years old , for my fancy dress costume . I do not know what it was about me dressing up as a clown that made John think that I might one day be destined for a career in politics . The truth is that I owe so much to my incredible city and the remarkable people of Southampton who gave me the opportunity to be where I am today . Southampton has made me who I am . As someone who grew up in one of Southampton ’s most deprived communities , I saw at first hand the importance of community and service to others . Southampton has a unique ability to come together when it is needed most . I have been inspired time and time again by the many examples set by our faith organisations , local businesses and incredible local charities , from Love Southampton , a faith - based initiative , to businesses such as the Saints Pub on the Millbrook estate , and charities like Yellow Door , No Limits and Saints Foundation . All work tirelessly to make Southampton a better place , and remind us that when we lift our poorest and most vulnerable in society , that lifts everyone . Our city ’s diversity has made me realise that we are the great place we are because of it — historic , but modern , dynamic , creative , and so much more . I may stand here as our constituency ’s first female MP and MP of colour , but I know that there are many more before me who have paved the way . I feel that responsibility here as well , and feel their weight on my shoulders . As a graduate of Southampton ’s two world - class universities — the University of Southampton , and then Solent University — I know that they put our city on the map , and that both are institutions that inspire , innovate and push boundaries . They have helped me , and our city , to be more forward - thinking and outward - looking . As a Saints fan , I must confess that supporting our team is a bit of an emotional rollercoaster , which has taught me , above anything else , enormous resilience . We are thankfully back in the premier league , but whether we are winning or losing , together as one city we march on . I am incredibly proud of Southampton and everything it represents , but like any major city , we know that we face challenges . One in every three children lives below the poverty line , and life expectancy can drop by 10 years simply by being the wrong side of a bridge . Public services are on their knees , and many families I represent are struggling . That is why I want to be part of the renewal that this Labour Government are promising , and want to rebuild the services on which my communities rely — from a decent home becoming a basic human right to people feeling safe in our streets and neighbourhoods again ; from having access to healthcare when it is needed to protecting our environment and rivers . Another key priority of mine is to ensure that we create opportunities for all , and include the excluded . We know that children from poor areas or ethnic minority backgrounds , or those with disabilities , are not less talented ; they are simply given fewer opportunities . Britain ’s talent is spread evenly across our communities and our country . If we are to realise our potential , we must ensure that those opportunities are spread more evenly too . These challenges will not be easy to resolve , but the people of Southampton , like so many across Britain , are rightfully proud and ambitious for themselves , their families and their country . That is why we need a Government who are equally ambitious , and committed to unlocking the potential and opportunities of places like Southampton . I know that , as a city , we stand ready to seize this moment to thrive and grow — and the drive , passion , compassion , togetherness and determination of the people of Southampton will see it through . Let me end by saying directly to them : I will be forever grateful to you for making this daughter of a market stall trader , who grew up in our inner city on free school meals , your Member of Parliament . You are the very best of me , and I am a product of every opportunity that you have given me . I shall never take that trust for granted , and I will spend every day , in here and beyond , championing our great city , fighting for it , and helping us to reach our enormous potential . I congratulate all hon . Members who have delivered their maiden speech . They have all spoken about their constituency with wit , passion and enthusiasm , and I have no doubt that they will be strong representatives for their constituents . It is a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech during the Sir David Amess general debate . Sir David was a stalwart Member of this House and was barbarically murdered in the line of parliamentary duty . As I stand here in this most historic of Chambers , I look over to Sir David ’s memorial plaque behind the Government Benches and , as I start life as a Member of Parliament , I hope I can be a strong voice and a man of action for my constituents , as Sir David was for his . I start with a heartfelt thank you to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East , for they are the reason I am here . They have put their trust in me to represent them as the first Member of Parliament for our new constituency . It is a responsibility that will always weigh heavily on my shoulders . I also say thank you to my family and campaign team , who have been bastions of love and support through the long journey to this place . For the record , I want it to be known that getting married during the early stages of a general election campaign makes for an interesting start . Thank you to my wife for being a constant voice of reason and my rock throughout . Although Exmouth and Exeter East is a new constituency , it was created by amalgamating areas from three previous constituencies , of which East Devon was by far the largest contributor . Referring to all my predecessors , as is custom in a maiden speech , may , therefore , mark me to the Speaker ’s Office as someone who does not abide by time limits . I say this because all three of my predecessors have made significant contributions to local and national life . Simon Jupp , the former Member for East Devon , worked hard for his constituents and campaigned relentlessly as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the great south - west . He helped to secure investment into the region and always championed our part of the world . I consider Simon to be a friend , and his contribution to this House will be missed , as will his encyclopaedic knowledge of local Devon ciders . Exmouth and Exeter East also incorporates one ward each from the Exeter and Central Devon constituencies . The new hon . Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) no doubt gave the right hon . Sir Ben Bradshaw the respect he deserves in his maiden speech . However , I would like to pay my own tribute to Sir Ben , and I know that his judgment and leadership will be missed by the Labour party . Lastly , I have been blessed to inherit the beautiful Exe valley from my right hon . Friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , who continues to serve and lead in this House . His loss is my gain , but I will ensure that I diligently represent the good people of the Exe valley as he has for the last 14 years . For those who have not had the good fortune to visit Exmouth and Exeter East , please allow me to indulge in a Cook ’s tour of my new constituency , and to give Members a flavour of the geography , the history , the settlements , the people and the organisations that make my part of the world so irresistibly enchanting . Starting at the mouth of the River Exe , going out to the heathlands of Woodbury Common and finishing in the countryside above the city of Exeter , the constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East has it all : beautiful beaches ; serene , open and arable landscapes ; the eastern part of a thriving city ; vibrant towns ; and picturesque villages . Many parts of my new constituency have been inhabited for several millennia , with areas such as Topsham being settled by the Celts , turned into a port by the Romans and expanded by the Saxons . Possibly our most famous resident has been Sir Walter Raleigh who was an Elizabethan statesman , soldier , writer and explorer . Although he achieved much in his life , I will do my best not to meet the same fate , which was to be tried for treason before meeting his end outside this Chamber in Old Palace Yard . We have some fantastic organisations across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which works tirelessly to keep locals and tourists safe in the waters around the constituency . We have global experts working to advance the frontiers of knowledge on weather and climate at the Met Office ’s headquarters . We have Clinton Devon Estates , which is ably responsible for the stewardship of much of the land in the southern area of the constituency . As an example , the Clinton Devon Estates team , working with the Environment Agency , recently demonstrated to the world how to proactively regenerate land by completing the lower Otter restoration project . As is to be expected , we are fortunate to have some of the best farming produce anywhere in the country . For those looking to visit , I highly recommend stopping in for a pasty at Darts farm or Greendale farm shop . However , the organisation that has the most special place in my heart is Commando Training Centre Royal Marines . For decades , the training camp in Lympstone and the area of Woodbury Common have been the proving ground for all wannabe Royal Marines , and for those from across our armed forces who aspire to become commandos . Having endured Royal Marine commando training over 16 years ago , I am happy to announce that I have learned , once again , to enjoy spending time on Woodbury Common , without fear of being cold , wet , hungry and covered in gorse thistles . The Royal Marines is a proud organisation , in its 360th year in service to our country . Sadly it had become increasingly rare for a former Royal Marine to enter this House as a Member . However , Royal Marines must share the same tendencies that buses are afflicted by : none turn up for eons , then four turn up at the same time . Although the other three former Royal Marines , the hon . and gallant Members for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) and for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) opted to join the party now in government , I know that the kinship that binds Royal Marines together through shared adversity will benefit this House , and , I hope , provide combative but constructive debate . While Exmouth and Exeter East has much to be celebrated , it also has its fair share of issues . From an aged and degraded sewerage network to antisocial behaviour , there are many issues that my constituents have placed trust in me to help improve . For too long we have built new houses in the area without delivering appropriate and corresponding infrastructure . I fear the new Government ’s top - down housing targets will further compound that issue , and I will do all I can to ensure that the right mix of houses are built , in the right places , with the right infrastructure and public consultation . I am also deeply concerned that large parts of Exmouth and Exeter East will be tarmacked over within one generation . Of course we need new homes for the next generation , so that they can live near their friends , family and work , but we must have a tempered approach and ensure that we do not overdevelop and destroy our countryside , and the culture of our historic towns and villages . There are also areas that I will work hard to improve across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as social care provisions , post-16 education schemes , job opportunities , transport links , and support for farmers and those in rural affairs . It is worth voicing that this new Parliament brings the winds of political change to Devon and the wider south - west of England . As a new MP , I am open and willing to work with fellow south - west MPs , regardless of political affinity , to ensure we drive as much investment and opportunity as possible to our part of the world , in a joined - up way . In an increasingly connected world , I believe our MPs must have a firm understanding of the national and international issues that affect us , and most importantly how these issues affect our constituencies . For much of my adult life , I have fought hard in several organisations to keep our United Kingdom safe and prosperous , both in the physical and the digital environment . We are on the precipice of a new industrial revolution . Frontier technologies , such as artificial intelligence , supercomputing and nanobiotechnology , will radically change our world and the relationship we have with it . It is imperative that the new Government understand these issues and work across the public and private sector to ensure that our United Kingdom remains a technological global leader . There is no getting away from the fact that the international system is becoming more volatile . It is deeply sad that conversations about international conflict are no longer hypothetical . War has broken out across multiple global regions , and we must act without delay to increase defence spending to meet the threats that are clearly present . Anthropogenic climate change has long ceased to be purely an academic debate — it is visible and happening now . We must continue to work closely with international partners to reduce our overall global carbon emissions . It is beyond a faux pas to speak in communist tones from the Conservative Benches — I could risk making the same treasonous mistake as Sir Walter Raleigh . However , there is modern resonance in Lenin ’s purported quote : “ There are decades where nothing happens ; and there are weeks where decades happen . ” In isolation , any of the points I have raised have the ability to cause mass societal and environmental change . When decades happening in weeks become the new normal , we must keep pace to ensure the United Kingdom remains strong , allied and ahead of the pack in an ever - changing world . My final message is to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East who sent me to this House . I promise that I will always fight for us , and that I will represent us to the best of my ability , while I have the privilege of serving as their Member of Parliament . I congratulate the hon . Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) on his maiden speech . It was a joy to hear a little about his constituency . I will begin by thanking my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Mid Derbyshire , Pauline Latham , for all she did to serve its residents . Pauline represented the constituency from its creation in 2010 until she stood down at the end of the last Parliament . Prior to 2010 , the communities that make up the constituency were part of other constituencies , served by many illustrious former Members , perhaps most notably George Brown . Pauline championed many important causes in this place , including international development . She also led the charge to increase the marriage age from 16 to 18 , a lasting change that reduces the risk of young people being subjected to coercion or abuse . I send Pauline my every best wish for her next chapter , and I look forward to working with her on areas of shared concern . A small but important part of my constituency was served by the former Member for Derbyshire Dales , Sarah Dines . I thank her for her service and I am sure my hon . Friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) will give a more extensive tribute to her in his maiden speech . One of the most exciting priorities of this new mission - led Government is their commitment to harnessing the power of nature to deliver clean power and , in turn , to deliver energy security , new jobs and cheaper bills . There is a history , stretching back over 250 years , of using nature to power the economy in the Derwent valley , which runs through Mid Derbyshire . The world ’s first water - powered mills were built on its river banks to spin cotton , making the valley the birthplace of the industrial revolution . Among its early pioneers was Jedediah Strutt , a hosier and cotton spinner from Belper . Through an entrepreneurial approach , Strutt progressed from humble beginnings to become one of the leading industrialists of his age . Along with Sir Richard Arkwright and Samuel Need , he was a father of the modern factory system , which was adopted around the world . Although the Derwent valley no longer hums to the clatter of looms or the rhythm of the people who operated them , it continues to harness nature to sustainably power homes and businesses through the hydroelectric schemes it supports today . However , despite being the east midlands ’ only UNESCO world heritage site , home to some of the country ’s most beautiful landscape and extensive biodiversity , some of the valley ’s iconic industrial buildings face an uncertain future , due to their poor state of repair and lack of occupation . We must save these buildings . They have incredible potential , including to support local economies , increase job opportunities and alleviate the housing crisis . They are also vital to telling Derbyshire ’s story , and the story of our country . Celebrating and preserving the past is not frivolous or sentimental nostalgia . It is vital to our sense of place and our perception of who we are today , what we share with others and what makes us distinctive . Knowing where we have come from also shapes where we venture next ; that is as true of buildings , countryside and historic sites as it is of our politics . It is also true of our arts and culture . The creative industries are among Britain ’s most important exports . They are a huge part of our economy and boost our standing around the world . They are a vital catalyst to express and explore ideas and bring communities together . They have been common to every culture since primordial times . Music , the visual arts , dance and drama provide an opportunity to walk in somebody else ’s shoes . They build a more inquiring society and help us to understand who we are and what it might be like to have somebody else ’s experience . They are also a vital educational tool , but in far too many cases they are not a staple in schools or something that people have an adequate opportunity to engage with throughout their life . I look forward to making the case , throughout my time in this place , that this is an underused opportunity for our country . As we face the huge challenges ahead and return the country to economic stability and renewal , opportunity must be our watchword : opportunity to help people get ahead in life through good jobs , for example in the small and medium - sized businesses that proliferate in my constituency or at places like SmartParc in Spondon , where food production is being reimagined ; opportunity to benefit from exceptional education and training , such as is being offered at Rolls - Royce and at the University of Derby in my constituency ; opportunity to enjoy good health and community safety through renewed public services ; and opportunity to live in a greener world through the new Government ’s commitment to the environment and to tackling climate change . Being given the opportunity to serve the people of Mid Derbyshire is the privilege of my life , and I thank everyone who supported me along the way . I thank the voters of Mid Derbyshire : whether they voted for me or not , I am here to serve them . I also thank my many friends and family , who have been a great source of strength on the journey . I am determined to do the people of Mid Derbyshire proud , and to support the new Government to deliver the change that my constituents tell me they need and that they rightly deserve . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . May I thank hon . Members who have made their first speeches today for setting the bar so high ? I hope I can live up to the standard that they have set . I am sent to this place by the constituents of Lichfield , a constituency that includes not only the city itself , but the town of Burntwood and around 40 villages and hamlets in the great county of Staffordshire . I am proud to serve the area that has been my home since before I knew to call anywhere home and where I hope it will be for many , many more years to come . My predecessor in this House was Sir Michael Fabricant . He was knighted in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 years representing first the constituency of Mid Staffordshire and then Lichfield in this House . Thirty - two years in total Sir Michael served , and I think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . Should I be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 years ’ time , Madame Deputy Speaker , I can only hope to have such a head of hair . It is , however , to longevity that I wish to turn now . Although I have received advice from some colleagues not to mention the Domesday Book , I can neatly sidestep that as the recorded history of my constituency dates back some 1,000 years before William the Conqueror to the Roman invasion and the establishment of Letocetum , a Roman fort and later settlement near the crossroads of Watling Street and Rykneld Street in my constituency . The crossing of those two roads remained an important place throughout the Roman and Saxon periods , and , in the 7th century , Chad of Mercia established a cathedral and diocese in Lichfield , which still exists today . In just over a week ’s time , I will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — I think — the 58th dean of Lichfield cathedral . The Right Reverend Jan MacFarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the Church in the local community and beyond . The 7th century is also noteworthy for the burying of the Staffordshire hoard , which was uncovered in Hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroads of Watling Street and Rykneld Street . The largest collection of Anglo - Saxon gold ever found , the hoard is already having , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isles , before there was an England , a Scotland , a Wales or a Northern Ireland . Let me move on from the 7th century . Over the coming years , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surrounding area maintained its rural and agrarian aspect for many centuries to come . In this time , the area did produce innumerable great lives , and , while they are far too numerous to mention all of them here , I should note Gregory King , the world ’s first economic statistician ; Elias Ashmole , whose collections founded the Ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the UK ; David Garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician Erasmus Darwin , a founding member of the Lunar Society who had a rather famous grandson ; the poet , Anna Seward ; Thomas Gisborne of Yoxall Lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of William Wilberforce ; the painter John Louis Petit , who is having a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; Frederick Oakeley , who translated the words to “ O Come All Ye Faithful ” in Lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , Samuel Johnson , a man of letters and the author of the first dictionary of the English language . Johnson ’s heir , Samuel Barber , was a freed slave who would go on to run a school in Burntwood , decades before Tom Jenkins would begin teaching in Teviothead in Scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in Lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the UK . Before I move on from some famous people from around the area , I should mention a local success story in Sophie Capewell . Lichfield ’s golden girl brought home not just a gold medal from Paris this year , but a world record as part of Team GBs fantastic efforts . In doing so , she ended my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , Nether Stowe in Lichfield , and although I had hoped to hold that title a little longer than 32 days I am happy to be disappointed on that point . Returning to my historical tour of Lichfield and its surrounding area , we reach the early and mid-19th century , and the town of Burntwood , a conurbation of mining villages , which grew up some four miles from Lichfield and has a similarly proud history . Its most notable resident was the fundraiser and campaigner Stephen Sutton , who raised millions for the Teenage Cancer Trust despite his diagnosis . We lost him far too soon , at the age of just 19 . He was made an MBE for his fundraising , so it is more than fitting that Burntwood town council remembers him through a student award named in his honour . Not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , Burntwood also took its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , St Anne ’s church in Chasetown became the first in the country to have electric lighting . Today , the people of Burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining areas . That is shown by the great examples of the Spark café and Burntwood Be a Friend , which have done so much to step in to replace services cut during 14 long years of Conservative Government . If we are discussing Burntwood , we can not forget the giant - killing exploits of Chasetown FC in the FA cup of 2007 - 08 . At some point , I will forgive the Members for Cardiff . Burntwood is not the only part of my constituency that has a mining history . The village of Handsacre also more than played its part in powering the industry of the 19th and 20th centuries . It is also the village where my old man taught his first lessons as a probationary teacher in the 1970s . The suggestion that his Geordie accident was in part responsible for his hiring in a school built to teach the children of new arrivals from the north - east remains suspected , if unconfirmed . Mining was not the only industry that found its way to my part of Staffordshire . Many of us will recognise the name Armitage Shanks , but few will know its links to the village of Armitage , just a short trip up Rugeley Road from Handsacre . As the new Government focus their legislative agenda on growth , I remind colleagues that while many of us may have already spent a penny with Armitage Shanks , they are all welcome to visit and spend many more in the coming years . All this industry meant that the canals came to my constituency . The Coventry canal and the Trent and Mersey canal are still navigable today , and the work of the Lichfield and Hatherton Canal Restoration Trust should be commended , as it aims to restore that link as a green and blue way over the coming years . Having touched again on transport , I will complete the circle and return to the crossroads that made Letocetum . Watling Street , or the A5 , as it is now known , and Rykneld Street , the A38 , are major transport arteries that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . The A38 in particular has helped to establish a logistics centre in the village of Fradley on the site of the former RAF Lichfield . Fans of the BBC ’s “ Bargain Hunt ” will know Fradley well , given the regular appearances of Richard Winterton and his auctioneers on that show . I hope that I can get as much airtime as they do . Slightly further up the A38 is the National Memorial Arboretum near Alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . I advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in November but on any day . I am sure that in the coming months the Secretary of State for Transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . On a dissimilar note , the first Travelodge in the UK was opened slightly up the road some 39 years ago , near the village of Barton - under - Needwood , although that village should be much better remembered as the home of the Holland tug of war team . Founded in 1970 , the team has represented England at numerous international tournaments , and even brought home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championships . It is to this constituency that I will return during the recess . I look forward to speaking to my constituents about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plans , and many other issues that are on their lips . I look forward to bringing those stories back to this place , so that I can continue to advocate on my constituents ’ behalf . I am extremely honoured to be giving my maiden speech in a debate named after the late , great Sir David Amess . I am grateful for this opportunity . I thank all Members who have given their maiden speeches today . I enjoyed the lot of them . It has been wonderful to learn about the many famous former residents of Lichfield , and I wish the hon . Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) the best of luck in adding his name to that pantheon . Special mention goes to the hon . Member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) for providing the answer to the pub quiz question : what links Craig David and fishfinger sandwiches ? We all know better now . I am the first non - Conservative MP for West Dorset in its 139 - year history — something I am extremely proud of . That notwithstanding , I will start by paying tribute to my Conservative predecessor . Chris Loder ’s family has farmed West Dorset for over 100 years , and he should be deservedly proud to have served as its MP . We are both successors to Sir Oliver Letwin , an MP who was so well respected by the residents of West Dorset that they would stop me at every opportunity to tell me what a fantastic constituency MP he was . I can only hope to leave this House as fondly remembered in the area as he is . Although each of us has been proud to be the Member for West Dorset , we are not West Dorset ’s proudest member . That honour goes to the Cerne Abbas giant , a 55 - metre - high chalk fertility symbol whose presence stands proud over the Cerne valley for all to see . West Dorset is the best constituency in the country . I know that for a fact because the towns of Bridport , Dorchester , Lyme Regis and Sherborne have , at various times over the past few years , been described as the best towns in Britain by no less an authority than the Dorset Echo , a newspaper that shares my unrivalled objectivity when it comes to the virtues of West Dorset . West Dorset is home to the world - famous Jurassic coast , a UNESCO world heritage site , where Mary Anning helped to revolutionise our understanding of prehistoric life . She was long overlooked by historians , but her contribution is now recognised with a beautiful statue in her home town of Lyme Regis . At the other end of Chesil beach is the Fleet lagoon , the UK ’s largest saltwater lagoon , on which sits the Abbotsbury swannery , which is home to over 600 swans and is a fantastic day out , especially if you love swans . As well as the swans , one can also see , rather incongruously , a prototype of Barnes Wallis ’s bouncing bomb . Quite what the swans of Abbotsbury thought about their home being used as a replica for the Ruhr dams is still unknown . Sadly , our beaches and rivers saw over 45,000 hours of sewage released into them last year . The River Lim , which exits at Lyme Regis , was declared “ ecologically dead ” due to the levels of pollution in it . It is shameful that I and my family , before we go swimming at the nearby beach of West Bay , must log on to the Surfers Against Sewage app to check whether it is safe to swim . I committed during the campaign to using my seat in this House to pressure the Government to take serious action on the issue of sewage , and I promise to do so . West Dorset is Hardy country . Thomas Hardy is renowned the world over for his poetry and novels , such as “ Far from the Madding Crowd ” and “ Tess of the d’Urbervilles . ” His works famously deal with themes of melancholy , sadness and moral conflict — emotions that I am sure are familiar to Members voting in the Tory leadership contest . In his lifetime , he was also highly critical of the declining status afforded to rural Britain . For even more than its beautiful towns and coastline , West Dorset is a constituency defined by its countryside — a landscape managed and maintained by our farmers and food producers , who are the beating heart of our rural economy . We desperately need a national food and farming strategy that will deliver sustainable living for our farmers . Far from being cut , the farming budget must be significantly increased if conversations about food security are ever to be anything other than fine words . As an environmentalist , I am delighted that we now have a Government who seem to understand the importance of tackling the climate crisis and who recognise the vital part that renewable energy will play in achieving net zero . Having spent a large part of my career in renewable energy , I will be urging the Government to go further and faster if we are to avoid the worst ravages of the climate emergency , which is already unfolding . The Liberal Democrats will continue to champion the need for action in this House . On the subject of my party , I pay tribute to our party leader , my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . I and many of my colleagues owe our seats in no small part to his fantastic , if unorthodox , campaign . I must also pay tribute to another leader of the Liberal Democrats . My political journey began in 2015 , with Nick Clegg ’s resignation speech . He said — I summarise here — that in the face of the politics of identity , nationalism and “ us versus them ” , it has never been more important to keep the flame of liberalism alive . It was true then and it is true now . I knew then that it was not enough to stand on the sidelines and watch the country that I love so much be eaten by the self - interest of those who seek power only for power ’s sake or for self - enrichment . Sadly , over the summer we saw that there are those who would seek to use the misery of people who have come here seeking refuge to further their own aims . I mention that because it will come as no surprise that the Morellos are not originally from this island . The Morellos of Italy became the Morellos of Spain — with apologies to both countries for my pronunciation — before coming to Britain at the beginning of the 20th century . One of my forebears died fighting in world war one for the country that adopted him , and is buried in a Commonwealth war grave cemetery in northern France . My own father served in the Royal Navy . Even more than Morellos , my family are Mazierskis . My maternal grandfather came here from Poland at the end of the second world war , fleeing another type of political tyranny . He arrived as a child , speaking no English . He became an engineer and set up a building company . His children became nurses , teachers , artists and architects . His grandchildren are doctors , civil servants , lecturers and environmentalists , and one of them stands here today as a Member of Parliament . In my experience , immigrants do not forget the debt they owe the country that offered them a future . We must not let hate win . We must champion hope . That is why it is more important than ever to fly the flag for liberalism , liberal values and a rules - based international order . I would also like to mention my amazing wife . She is far , far cleverer than me and would make a far better politician . Without her , I certainly would not be here today , not just because of the love and support she has shown me , but because it was her suggestion that I run in the first place — something I find myself reminding her with increasing frequency . Finally , I thank the voters of West Dorset for putting their faith in me . It is a huge honour to represent them , and I look forward to doing everything I can to deliver a better deal for West Dorset . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allowing me to make my maiden contribution in this debate . I pay tribute to the Members on both sides of the House who have made their maiden contributions , including the hon . Member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , who gave us an illuminating insight into what we could hope to see in his constituency . I also pay tribute to those who knew Sir David Amess for their moving contributions . I am extremely proud to be the first Labour Member of Parliament for Altrincham and Sale West , in no small part because of the brilliant team of local volunteers who worked on the campaign and the support of my wonderful friends and family . I also thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . Friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , who was born in my constituency and was such a valuable friend to me during the campaign . At this early stage in my contribution , I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Lord Brady , who represented the people of Altrincham and Sale West for 27 years . I thank him for his service to his constituents and for his kind words to me following my election . I think one of my constituents summed it up best . While I was knocking on doors in Hale during the election campaign , a woman — and the whole House will be relieved to know that I will not attempt to impersonate her — said of Lord Brady , “ The thing about Graham is that whether you agreed or disagreed with him , and frankly I usually disagreed with him , he was always unfailingly affable . ” I hope to one day be described by my constituents in a similar fashion . Of course , as the result of a rather interesting few years for the Conservative party , he might well come to be remembered as one as the more consequential chairs of the 1922 committee . I am sure the new chair , the hon . Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , is hoping for a slightly quieter few years . Judging by the friendly and collegial way in which that party ’s leadership contest is shaping up , I have every confidence that that will be the case . When I meet new Members from all sides of this House and tell them I am fortunate enough to represent a constituency as beautiful as Altrincham and Sale West , in many cases I get a nagging sense from them that my mere presence in this House , representing where I do , is symptomatic not just of the level of change at the last general election , but of a Labour party that is able to appeal to every part of our country and every section of society . However , the reality is that my constituency is extraordinarily diverse in almost every regard . Within easy reach of the city of Manchester , it is a place of business , thriving small and medium - sized enterprises and entrepreneurship — including the spectacular market in Altrincham — but Wythenshawe and Trafford general hospitals are also major employers . It is an area with tens of churches , four synagogues and the Altrincham and Hale Muslim Association , and it is where many from Hong Kong have chosen to start a new life away from tyranny and repression . Yes , it is a part of the world where many people are doing well for themselves and for their families , but it also has an estimated 3,000 children growing up in poverty . What unites the constituency and makes it such an extraordinary place is that it has such a strong sense of community , participation , and everyone pitching in to play their part . I have seen that at Altrincham football club , a brilliant community club with amazing grassroots initiatives , and which in 2019 became the first team in England to wear a shirt inspired by the rainbow flag to show their support in the fight against homophobia . I have seen it from staff and volunteers at the Garrick Playhouse , who work tirelessly to put on a comprehensive series of plays and productions , and I have seen it at Trafford South foodbank , which works across the constituency to provide for people in need . It is able to do what it does thanks to the remarkably generous donations of local people . However , all too often , organisations such as that foodbank are having to go above and beyond in the most challenging of circumstances to stop people falling through the cracks , because as a country we have failed to provide people with the security in work that they need ; we have failed to provide the economic stability and certainty that businesses need in order to invest ; and we have failed to address the long - term challenges our country faces . That is why Labour was elected : to fix what has become broken , and to offer hope and renewal . That is why the people of Altrincham and Sale West sent me here : to cut waiting times across our national health service , including at Wythenshawe and Trafford general ; to clean up our badly polluted rivers and streams ; and to make sure people can feel safe on our streets by tackling crime and antisocial behaviour . Having worked on a national campaign against the violence and abuse that shopworkers receive , I know how important it is that we clamp down on crime against public - facing workers , and I know that this Government will act . Having changed our party so that we could be given the extraordinary opportunity we have to change our country , that is the sort of tangible change to the lives of people in Altrincham and Sale West that we must achieve . I am looking forward to working to deliver that change in the years to come and showing how , even in difficult times , Government can still be a force for good . That is the very least that the people of Altrincham and Sale West , and of our country , expect and deserve . On that note , second only to Bridgend , Chatham and Aylesford is one of the most beautiful constituencies in the country . [ Laughter . ] Created in 1997 from the previous Rochester and Chatham , Mid Kent , and Tonbridge and Malling seats , we have a rich legacy of excellent and outspoken parliamentarians , including Dame Peggy Fenner , Andrew Rowe , Julian Critchley , Jonathan Shaw and the remarkable Dame Tracey Crouch . What can I say ? Dame Tracey is well known for her warm personality and diligence . She is engaging , and her constituents spoke well of her on the doorstep and in the 14 years she represented the area . I am also reliably informed that , unlike me , she had a legendary involvement in the parliamentary football team . I am reliably informed , again , that her tackling skills were well known , and that no one ever tried to take the ball from her when she was in in full flight . On a serious note , she has done outstanding work on the football fan - led review , she led on anti - gambling legislation when she was in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and she has left a deeply inspiring legacy for young women in sport in particular . I salute her record and her fortitude . My constituents embody aspiration and determination . Although I was raised in the city of Medway , I have been actively involved in Chatham since 2001 . It is a dynamic and diverse area , with hard - working , direct and down - to - earth people . The constituency is truly beautiful , with stunning panoramic views from Blue Bell Hill over the weald of Kent . On a clear day one can see many other constituencies , including Tonbridge , Sevenoaks , Maidstone and Malling and Canterbury , and many walkers and hikers find entertainment along the historic Pilgrims ’ Way . The seat also contains some of the earliest human settlement history , with the megalithic structures of Kit ’s Coty harking back to neolithic times . It is identified with numerous artefacts of historical significance , although I must say to the hon . Member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) that there are — perhaps — no chalk figures of historic stature in my constituency . The part of my constituency that will be most familiar to Members is Chatham , whose historic legacy is known across the world . Its significance as a commissioned dockyard has been recognised globally , and its long - standing naval tradition dates back to Henry VIII and the Tudor period . The area retained that naval link until the 1980s , when the dockyard was closed , and it still has that proud naval tradition . I am reliably informed that the Resolute desk in the Oval Office , in the heart of western democracy , came from HMS Resolute , which was constructed and supported in Chatham , and many of our finest naval traditions have come from that location . Chatham and Aylesford does , however , face significant challenges . Many areas , particularly urban Chatham , experience poverty , and , according to figures from the House of Commons Library , 17 % of children are living in poverty . Issues such as crime and antisocial behaviour have been exacerbated by cuts in neighbourhood policing and early intervention programmes . I am committed to working with all our communities to address those challenges . , and it is on that note that I want to pay particular tribute to many of the charities and other organisations that serve my local community . They include the Arches project in Luton , the dementia awareness groups , Street Angels , Royal British Legion Industries and our Poppy Appeal volunteers , who go out every year to collect funds for veterans and our military community . I believe that community wealth building should be central to our approach to government . By focusing on wealth creation , we can drive and support local businesses and revitalise our town centres . My hon . Friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) has done excellent work in that neighbouring seat to revitalise Gillingham town centre , and I will seek to replicate it , working closely with council leaders across Medway , Tonbridge and Malling and Kent county council to advance the agenda . In recent weeks I have heard many inspiring speeches from new Members , but what unites us all is a shared ambition to effect positive change for our communities and our country . I am honoured to serve , and I pledge to work across party lines to ensure economic security and improvements in our public services — and I will do so in a friendly , open and approachable way . The Government must of course deal with the £ 22 billion in - year deficit , and we must work to secure our economic prosperity to ensure that all our people , especially our young people , have the skills that will give them a future . I am deeply honoured to represent the constituents of Chatham and Aylesford . Thank you for calling me to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his contribution . It was interesting to hear about the challenges facing industry in his constituency . It is with immense pride and honour that I stand here today to give my maiden speech as the first ever female and first ever Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell , which also includes the towns of Ashtead and Leatherhead . This moment is not just about my election victory , but part of a long journey of progress that started with brave women like Emily Wilding Davison , a suffragette who gave her life for the cause of women ’s rights . In 1911 , she famously hid within the walls of this very building , the Palace of Westminster , to declare it her residence on the night of the census . Just two years later , she made the ultimate sacrifice , losing her life at the Epsom Derby while campaigning for women ’s suffrage . It is remarkable that today , 101 years after her passing , we now have 263 women in this Parliament , more than ever before . That progress is a testament to her legacy and the relentless efforts of organisations such as 50:50 Parliament , whose support in getting me here I am personally grateful for . I am delighted that there is now progress towards establishing a women ’s caucus in Parliament . I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Lord Grayling , my predecessor , on his move to the other place , and to thank him for his 23 years of dedicated service to Epsom and Ewell . His service to the community is well recognised , and I look forward to building upon that work , while bringing fresh perspectives and new energy to our local and national challenges . The community of Epsom and Ewell prides itself on strong local values , resilience , and on a rich sporting and creative history . It is home to the world - famous Epsom Derby . We have the University for the Creative Arts , Laine Theatre Arts and many sporting clubs , including three running clubs and two football clubs . It has several vibrant economic hubs , with many successful businesses , large and small . But it is the people who make my constituency special . Whether it is our small businesses , voluntary groups or the diverse families who have made the area their home , Epsom and Ewell represents the best of what a community can be when it works together . Epsom and Ewell is a beautiful place , blessed with remarkable green spaces and historical significance . We are fortunate to have three sites of special scientific interest : Ashtead Common , Priest Hill and Stones Road pond . We also have beautiful green spaces , such as Horton and Nonsuch parks , Epsom Downs and the Surrey hills , an area of outstanding natural beauty . One site that holds special meaning for many is Langley Vale , which was used to train over 8,000 soldiers during the first world war and where Lord Kitchener famously inspected the troops . Today , it stands as a centenary wood , a place of reflection with beautiful sculptures honouring our military past . As someone who proudly served in the Army , in the Royal Military Police , I am deeply moved by our community ’s ties to the armed forces . My own military experience includes serving in Iraq during Operation Telic IV in 2004 , where I was responsible for retraining and mentoring the Iraqi police force in Maysan province . It was a volatile and dangerous region at that time and it was not an easy tour . We came under fire on a regular basis and it was made harder with the knowledge that , just a year before my arrival , six of my RMP colleagues were killed in Majar al - Kabir . The coroner found that they had been given inadequate radios and ammunition , so it was no surprise that we were given more ammo and weapons when I arrived . I want to ensure that our armed forces continue to have the right resources to stay safe in their duties as this Government conduct their spending review . I hope the Secretary of State for Defence will bear in mind the effect that cuts can have in the field . Lord Darzi ’s report about the NHS was published today , so it is apt that I share a personal experience that underscores my commitment to improving healthcare services in Epsom and Ewell . In 2007 , my six - week - old son suddenly turned blue in front of me , while a health visitor was visiting . I called 999 . It was a terrifying moment , and before I knew what was going on , my living room was packed with paramedics and there was equipment everywhere . I was told to pack a bag and shortly afterwards we arrived at A&E. The crash team was there and my baby boy was surrounded by 20 consultants trying to figure out what was wrong . I stood there looking on , helpless . The doctors managed to stabilise my son and moved him to the amazing Evelina hospital , just over the river from Parliament , as they did not have the specialist equipment needed . He went into the paediatric intensive care unit . Every bit of his skin , even his head , was covered by some sort of patch or monitor to try to establish what was going on . The consultant informed us that he had bronchiolitis and that it would be touch and go that evening . Thankfully , my son survived the night and we spent over a week in intensive care , as the amazing doctors worked to save his life from bronchiolitis . I saw at first hand the critical importance of high - quality emergency care . It is my mission to make sure that the residents of Epsom , Ewell , Ashtead and Leatherhead have access to the best possible healthcare . Our community was promised one of the 40 new hospitals . That commitment must be fulfilled . We are part of the Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust . St Helier hospital is struggling , with crumbling facilities and overstretched staff . We have fewer hospital beds per capita than in many other nations . Ceilings are falling in and buildings are condemned . The need for a new hospital is urgent , and I look forward to discussing it with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care in the coming weeks . The House will be pleased to know that my son is now a big , strong 16 - year - old , challenging his parents as every teenager does . Epsom and Ewell is home to two significant rivers : the Hogsmill , a relatively pristine chalk river whose beauty was immortalised by Sir John Everett Millais in his iconic painting “ Ophelia ” ; and the River Mole , which is one of the most polluted in the country . Thames Water ’s negligent handling of our water resources has led to more than 8,000 hours of sewage discharge into the River Mole in the first six months of this year alone . Thames Water is crippled by being billions in debt , and water bills keep rising . Executive bonuses are handed out as the sewage is pouring out . This mismanagement of our water is unacceptable . I call for greater regulation and accountability and for a sewage tax to protect our rivers and water infrastructure . Epsom and Ewell has affluent areas , but we also face stark social inequalities . There are parts of my constituency in which food banks have become a lifeline for struggling families , and our local housing waiting list has grown to more than 1,300 households . Food banks are not the norm ; they are a sign that society simply is not working . I am concerned that even more of my constituents will be using them this winter as they struggle without the winter fuel allowance . The stark contrast between wealth and deprivation is a reminder that we must do more to support those who are most in need . I am incredibly grateful for the work of the Good Company , the Leatherhead community hub , local faith organisations and all the volunteers and local charities who work tirelessly to provide for our community ’s most vulnerable . As the Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell — a constituency that stretches from Worcester Park and Stoneleigh in the north to Ashtead and Leatherhead , the gateway of the Surrey hills , in the south — I want our community to thrive economically , socially and environmentally . My constituency has inspired literary greats such as C. S. Lewis and Jane Austen . I believe that it can continue to be a place of innovation and inspiration . I thank my parents for their support throughout the years . I thank my husband and three kids for their support and their leafleting prowess throughout my campaign . Most importantly , I thank my constituents for placing their trust in me . I am committed to repaying their trust with service , dedication and determination to make Epsom and Ewell a better place for everyone . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to address the House for my first speech , and for making time available for so many of us to make our first speech today . I particularly congratulate the hon . Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) : the story about her child in intensive care touched me very deeply , as an intensive care practitioner . I can see that she is going to be a fantastic advocate for our armed forces and for the things they need to serve the country well . In passing , I must mention Lord Darzi ’s report , which my right hon . Friend the Health Secretary presented to the House today — not because of the content of the report , but because in 2015 I was honoured to become a Darzi fellow . Lord Darzi set up his fellowship programme to bring clinicians like me , a nurse , into clinical leadership , to ensure that the NHS and the health system are led by clinicians . I am not sure that the plan was to get us all into the Houses of Parliament , but I am the first Darzi fellow here and I think there will be quite a few more . I am honoured to speak in this debate in memory of Sir David Amess , whose constituency of Southend West can be seen from mine of Sittingbourne and Sheppey — we see the beautiful vista of Southend , which is now a city , across the Thames . Over the past few months , during the campaign and afterwards , there have been several times when I have looked over at Southend and taken a moment to reflect on the manner and the tragedy of Sir David ’s death and what it means for all of us serving here in the House . It is a great blessing of my constituency that , amid our busy , traffic - laden towns , we have these beautiful vistas down the Thames and the Medway estuary . We have broad , flat salt marshes meeting big skies — places that you can escape to and properly reflect on everything that matters in life . During the election campaign , I asked my constituents what they valued most in the constituency , and it was that proximity to nature that kept coming up . They mentioned the wide - open estuary waters of the Thames and Medway — several of my Medway colleagues are in their places today — the many sites of special scientific interest and the nature reserve at Elmley . Now that Members are spending time in London , they might want to pop down for a hot yoga weekend — it ’s a whole thing . However — so many Members have said something similar when describing their seat — that is only half the story . The other half is the still proudly industrial town of Sittingbourne . Its character and location challenge many people ’s preconceptions of Kent . Sittingbourne ’s twin on the Isle of Sheppey , Sheerness - on - Sea , has busy docks — docks that , hopefully , will become only busier as the opportunities for growth , construction and new green industries are realised by this Government . Sittingbourne and Sheppey is perfectly located to take advantage of all that development . My job is not only to argue for our place in the rebuilding of Britain , but to ensure that my constituents see real social , economic , health and wellbeing benefits from the opportunities . The factors that led to the foundations of our towns being laid centuries ago fit the way that technological , industrial and transport strategies are all pointing now . Sittingbourne straddles the main road from Dover to London and is connected directly by water , road and rail to Sheerness docks on Sheppey . This is what made the Saxon kings of Kent grab the land and claim it as their terra regis . This is something that the residents of Milton Regis are very proud to remind me of — that it is a royal town in the middle of Sittingbourne . It was those same routes that allowed the town of Queenborough to develop as a major port . Tucked behind Sheppey is the safe waterway — and major trading route — from London through to the continent and the rest of the world . Those routes are also what enabled Sittingbourne to develop a major brick - building industry in the 19th century . It produced more bricks and had more people working in it than the potteries in Staffordshire . Those bricks were largely used to build London . Many town houses in the 19th century , Buckingham Palace and many of the buildings on this parliamentary estate will have been built with the clay and bricks from Sittingbourne . Our water and transport gives us the opportunity to produce green energy and bring about greener ways of travelling . That will benefit Sittingbourne and Sheerness in the future . Peel Ports at Sheerness is a major importer of construction materials for the south of England . With investment to restore our rail freight links and an ambition to once again use our water routes , we can be at the heart of a green revolution . But there is more to a place than land and water . A place is made by people . What will ensure that the people of my constituency get the benefits that they are crying out for as a result of growth and rebuilding is the strength of our local communities and the collective action that comes from grassroots organisations . As we move more services out of hospitals to the community and try to mend the broken sense of cohesion in our society , these community actors will be key . There are great organisations , including Seashells nursery in Sheerness , which holds true to the course taken by Sure Start centres , with their now proven benefits , although they are sadly under threat of closure , and Wiggles children ’s nursery , which has partnered with Sheppey ’s Range Rovers football club to create a multi - generational facility that will massively boost the health of the neighbourhood . There are also people coming together , on the island and the mainland , to form progressive men ’s mental health peer support groups , including Men - Talk . UK in Sheppey and Sittingbourne . A team of volunteers resurrected the Sittingbourne carnival this year after several years ’ gap to ensure that its tradition of more than 130 years does not die , but instead will go from strength to strength . There is Swale food bank , and underpinning so many of the voluntary organisations in my constituency is Swale Community and Voluntary Services , which fosters lots of organisations , helping them to get started , get organising and help their communities . Part of the reason for that depth of community co - operation is that my constituency faces the challenge of having some of the most deprived parts of Kent and the south - east . Unfortunately , a big driver for that is the very geography that otherwise brings in so many benefits and opportunities . As Sheppey is an island , with only one point in the west that connects to the rest of England , there are pockets of isolation , and when the two bridges go down , as sadly they have all too often of late , people can not get off Sheppey to go to work or school , or on to Sheppey to deliver services in Sheppey ’s hospitals , schools , docks and three prisons . All that impacts not just Sheppey but Sittingbourne and the surrounding villages . Both my predecessors worked to overcome those entrenched challenges . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Gordon Henderson , who many here know well , for his work persuading his party when they were in power to invest in technical skills training on the island and expand Sheppey College . My Labour predecessor , Derek Wyatt , secured the funding for a permanent fixed bridge to the island , the Sheppey crossing , to overcome the problems of the old Kingsferry bridge , which is only a few metres away and has to be raised several times a day to let ships through , to link the paper mills and the docks . Both of them believed in the enormous potential of the area , but there is a lot more to do . It is a professional habit of intensive care nurses that we are inveterate fiddlers and fixers . We like to help people , and we like to keep busy doing so . Now that I have swapped adjusting ventilator settings and syringe drivers for work in public policy , however , I need to find new ways to keep busy . I will keep working with people in Sittingbourne and Sheppey to bring them together , and will work collaboratively at trying to fix things for the better , but there is one thing in the constituency that I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not be fiddling with : the SS Richard Montgomery , a wrecked world war two cargo ship sunk just off Sheerness , which is packed with something like 1,400 tonnes of high explosives . Most experts feel that as long as the ship is not disturbed , the seawater will gradually inactivate those explosives , so if they are ever disturbed enough to trigger , any fireworks would be minor . However , there is a minority view that if something triggered all the explosives to go off at once , the resulting explosion would not just inundate the whole of Sittingbourne and Sheppey but send a 5 - metre tsunami back up the Thames , all the way to central London , swamping the Palace of Westminster — giving us all very wet feet , and most of the MPs in the south - east and London an awful lot of extra casework . Finally , I thank my constituents again for putting their faith in me ; the campaigners and activists who helped me to get elected ; my parents and siblings , who have always shown how proud they are of me ; and most of all , my husband Lee , who I could not have got this far in life without , and who is a true partner to me in everything that we do . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I thank all hon . Members for their fine contributions , including my hon . Friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the hon . Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . It is the greatest honour of my life to serve the people of Stratford - on - Avon . I am humbled to have been elected to represent the place that I call home , where I live and where I have raised my family , who are here today in the Public Gallery . I am proud to be the first Liberal MP for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elected to this role . I extend my heartfelt thanks to the people of Stratford , Alcester , Studley , Shipston , Henley , Bidford and the many villages and hamlets that make up our beautiful constituency . I thank them for placing their trust in me . I promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fighting every day for the fair deal that they deserve . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadhim Zahawi , who was MP for Stratford - on - Avon for the last 14 years . During his political career he covered many important roles in the Cabinet , but I thank him in particular for his work as vaccines Minister during the covid pandemic . I also acknowledge the service of the late John Maples , who represented Stratford - upon - Avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before being elevated to the other place . He was both well liked and greatly admired . Although I am proud to be the first female MP for Stratford - upon - Avon , I am not the first to bring Italian heritage to the role . That distinction belongs to another of my predecessors , John Profumo , who beat me to it — although I plan on a much quieter stay in the history books . My constituency is one of the most beautiful areas of our country , with luscious woodland such as the Heart of England forest , valleys lapped by rivers and brooks , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the Warwickshire countryside can be . My connection to my constituency is one of deep love . I love the stretches from Shipston - on - Stour and the rolling Cotswolds fringes in the south , to the Avon valley villages and Henley - in - Arden in the north , where the majestic forest of Arden once stood . At the heart of my constituency lies the town of Stratford - upon - Avon , celebrated worldwide as the birthplace of the greatest playwright of all : William Shakespeare . Each year on William ’s birthday , the town remembers and celebrates its most famous son , with civic dignitaries and local schoolchildren parading through the historic streets to lay flowers on his tomb in Holy Trinity church . I look forward to joining them next April . What makes our constituency special above all is its people , who are resilient and community minded . Each town and village is blessed with warm - hearted volunteers helping in repair cafés , food banks , the community speed watch and flood action groups . There are outstanding places of learning , such as our local schools and colleges , the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham , and the University of Warwick ’s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisations such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust ; as well as grassroots arts companies such as the Bear Pit Theatre and Escape Arts . Events such as the Shipston proms celebrate the wealth of musical talent . Most of all , we are a constituency of entrepreneurs and innovators , businesses and social enterprises . Overlooked by Beaudesert castle — known locally as “ the Mount”—the town of Henley - in - Arden has a timber - framed high street , which includes Henley ’s most famous attraction , Henley Ice Cream , which is well worth a visit . Alcester is a town rich in community spirit that comes together each year for events such as the Alcester food festival . The town ’s roots stretch back to Roman times , and its heritage is proudly preserved today in the Roman Alcester Museum . Just up the road from Alcester is Coughton Court , home of the Throckmorton family , who played a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . As the new MP for the area , I assure the House that I will not continue that local tradition . My constituency also has some of the most beautiful waterways in the country . The Rivers Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour , and our fantastic canal network , including the longest canal aqueduct in England — the Edstone aqueduct — are not only vital to our community ’s natural and industrial heritage , but are central to our environmental responsibilities . Sadly , not enough has been done to tackle river pollution . I thank residents for joining citizens ’ science projects to regularly test the water and collect much - needed data on the state of our rivers ’ health , so that we can hold the Government and water companies to account . As a rural constituency , we face many challenges : NHS dentistry deserts , long waiting times for mental health services , special educational needs and disabilities families battling for education provision , and fuel poverty . Many of my vulnerable constituents live in off - grid homes that are expensive to heat . The Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 , introduced by Sir David Amess , was important legislation that sought to eliminate fuel poverty . To further combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that homes are safe , warm and cheap to heat . As Shakespeare wrote : “ Some are born great , some achieve greatness , and others have greatness thrust upon them . ” I stand here today not because I was born great , or because I sought greatness , but because the people of Stratford - upon - Avon have entrusted me with public service . Together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituents and our country . With a new Parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fairer , greener and more inclusive future . The stage is set , and it is now time for us to play our part .