Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to make my maiden speech during this important debate on the King ’s Speech , which set out the agenda of change that the country voted for and which this Labour Government will deliver . I congratulate all new Members who have made maiden speeches today . It is the honour of my life to represent my home of Hastings and Rye . I know that you are very familiar , Madam Deputy Speaker , with all that we in Hastings and Rye have to offer visitors — especially our famous fish and chips . In recent years , our fisherman have worked hard to keep our local fishing industry going in the most difficult of circumstances , and they will always have my full support . Hastings and Rye hosts the world crazy golf championship every year , and we also hold the world record for the biggest gathering of pirates in any one place — a record that we try to beat every year on pirate day . Although one of my predecessors in representing Rye was himself a real pirate , I am relieved to say that that can not be said for many of them . Sally - Ann Hart worked extremely hard for our constituency , and I thank her in particular for her work in support of women and children feeling domestic abuse — a legacy that I hope to build on . Another thing that we wholeheartedly agree on is speaking out about the unacceptable levels of abuse and intimidation that too many Members of this House have faced , particularly women . The plaque of the late Jo Cox is facing us , and that of Sir David Amess is behind me . They are a constant and tragic reminder of where that can end . I also pay tribute to my Labour predecessor , Michael Foster . He is well known in our area for helping so many residents and for having been a passionate champion for Hastings and Rye during his time in this House . Many Members will know our area for a very famous battle that took place in 1066 . Historians may still be arguing about where exactly it took place , but it is safe to say that it has cemented our place in the history books . Since then , we have continued to play our part in British history — from being immortalised in the novel “ The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists ” to being the birthplace of television . Perhaps what defines us most , though , is our community spirit , underpinned by our volunteers and charities , who do so much . Our calendar is full of carnivals and festivals , from Jack in the Green to bonfire night . Those events are made possible only by volunteers who give up their time to give back to the community and raise money for our local charities . Volunteers also maintain and protect so many of our amazing public spaces , from Hastings country park to Rye harbour nature reserve and Camber Sands . There are also some points of our history that we would rather forget , such as the unveiling of a certain stone tablet in Hastings during the 2015 general election campaign by my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . That stone may have been consigned to history , but I know that my right hon . Friend will be back very soon to unveil some new green energy infrastructure , and that it will be longer - lasting than the stone . Although we have often found ourselves at the centre of historical events , we have not always felt all of the benefits . Our road and rail infrastructure is stuck in the past : we may be a similar distance from London as Brighton is , but our train line takes twice as long . We lie at the end of the A21 , a road that has been described as the least developed in the south - east of England . As any driver will tell you , we have the worst potholes in the country , and our water infrastructure is also failing us : Southern Water has a lot to answer for in my constituency , dumping record levels of sewage along our coastline from St Leonards through Hastings to Fairlight , Pett , Camber Sands and Winchelsea beach . Some sewage has even come into people ’s homes and gardens in my constituency , and when the water pipes have failed , we have faced major flooding in homes and the town centre and been left without a water supply for days on end . I am pleased to see that the water special measures Bill , which will start to clean up our water industry , is part of this King ’s Speech . The cratered state of our roads and crumbling water infrastructure is symbolic of how we have too often been forgotten by Westminster . Life expectancy is lower than the national average , a trend that has got worse over the past 14 years . People wait longer for an ambulance in my constituency than anywhere else in the south - east of England , and the situation is particularly bad in our villages and rural areas such as Winchelsea , where people wait 45 minutes on average when having a stroke or heart attack . That is why this Government ’s plans to cut NHS waiting times can not come soon enough . As a seaside destination , our area has benefited hugely from tourism , but we are also at the sharp end of the housing crisis , with spiralling rents and simply not enough homes being built . Too many of my constituents are left in poor - quality rental accommodation , whether by Southern Housing or private landlords . That is why I so welcome the measures in this King ’s Speech to get Britain building again , building more homes and giving all renters more protections . This Government have a mission to break down the barriers to opportunity . That is sorely needed in my constituency , where almost 40 % of children are growing up in poverty and over half our young people are leaving school without the essential qualification of a grade 4 in English and maths . How we treat our children says a lot about us as a society ; before joining this House , I had the privilege of seeing that up close in many different countries as an aid worker with Save the Children . It is always children who suffer the most in war and conflict . I have sat with young mums in Yemen holding their starving babies , so hungry that they do not have the energy to cry , and have heard harrowing stories from Rohingya women who have fled ethnic cleansing and sexual violence at the hands of the Myanmar military . I always promised those women that I would share their stories with the world , and my time in this place will be no different . We are at a time in history when more children are growing up in conflict than ever before . Rightly , much focus has been devoted recently to the appalling events in Israel and Palestine — there , too , it is children bearing the brunt of war . We must redouble our efforts to bring about peaceful solutions to all these conflicts , and must remember that all the global issues we face , from climate change to migration , can only be solved by working across borders with our international allies and through strong , multilateral institutions such as the United Nations . Just as I have been so inspired by the women I have met living in some of the toughest places on Earth , I also wanted to acknowledge some of the women whose shoulders I stand on closer to home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know I speak for many Labour Members when I say how much we miss your sister , the late , great Baroness Margaret McDonagh . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] She always had such wise counsel to offer us , and that is the reason why many of us sit on these Benches today . I also thank my family and friends for all the support they have given me in getting me to this place . This King ’s Speech will begin to deliver the change and renewal that Hastings and Rye voted for . I look forward to working hard for all my constituents across Hastings and Rye and delivering that much - needed change .