I draw the House ’s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests . I want to raise a few issues , all of which I know are very much on my constituents ’ minds . First , I want to emphasise the importance of ensuring that boroughs such as Reigate and Banstead , which have been managed well and are not loaded with debt , are not left footing the bill for the failures of other councils that have been less prudent with their finances . Reigate and Banstead borough council has a commendably strong record of financial prudence , so please will the Secretary of State reassure my constituents that protection will be put in place to safeguard our community assets , such as the Harlequin theatre , and our community and leisure centres ? On the Harlequin theatre specifically , I emphasise how important the asset is to the people of Redhill and beyond . It has now been closed for more than two years , following the discovery of RAAC , and residents and community groups — notably , the Harlequin Support Group — have been resolutely campaigning for its repair and reopening . I am delighted that , under the leadership of Councillor Shelly Newton , who is one of the most tenacious local councillors I have ever come across , it has now been confirmed that the £ 4.5 million needed for repair has been allocated . All being well , the theatre is expected to reopen by Christmas 2026 . I mention that because my constituents would appreciate hearing directly from the Secretary of State and Ministers that the local government reorganisation will not hamper such projects , which have been agreed but will take some time to complete . I also make the point that the reorganisation is not the only challenge faced by Reigate and Banstead borough council , which has just had its housing target more than doubled by this Government , at a time of great uncertainty and transition — a recipe for disaster . I want to focus mainly , however , on the future of the civic mayoralty in Reigate and Banstead . Reigate has had a mayor since 1863 . Great history and tradition is associated with the role , and the importance placed on it can be seen physically in the mayoral robes , the chain of office and the mace , which are still very much in use . The Government have been clear that their intention with the Bill is to provide a consistent model for how local government will be structured across England . What is rather less clear — I hope that the Minister or Secretary of State will be able to provide clarity — is what that means for boroughs such as mine , where a borough council is intermeshed with a long - standing tradition of civic leadership in the form of a borough mayor . Unlike metro mayors , the mayor of the borough of Reigate and Banstead is no kind of political executive . The role is that of a civic figurehead , non - partisan , ceremonial and community focused . We have a truly outstanding mayor , Councillor Rich Michalowski , and , before him , Councillor Eddie Hughes was another dedicated and hard - working public servant . In the past civic year alone , the mayor responded to more than 350 engagement requests , hosted 25 town hall tours for schools and community groups , and oversaw 32 civic and charity events attended by nearly 1,500 people , not including the thousands more who attended Remembrance Sunday . The position of borough mayor does real , practical good . Their attendance at an event brings that extra sparkle , which residents so appreciate . Through the mayor ’s trust fund , 38 families in my constituency have already been supported with grants this year . A single funding workshop led by the mayor ’s team unlocked more than £ 50,000 for local charities . Through sustained community engagement , the mayor helps connect employers with jobseekers , donors with good causes , and schools with mentors . They promote local artists , support care homes , champion the armed forces covenant , and offer practical help to residents in crisis . I hope that Ministers will agree with my constituents in recognising the great value of a borough mayor , and that they will provide clarity on whether such roles will be preserved under the Bill and , if so , how in practical terms that will be achieved .