I pay tribute to my hon . Friend as Sara ’s MP for raising the horror that has taken place . Of course , I agree that data sharing between public authorities is vital to ensure that such a case does not happen again . But it is not enough , and , alone , it will not prevent the catastrophic and systematic negligence of Surrey county council . This is the same department that had the highest number of statutory breaches relating to children reported to the Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman for over two years . The department covered information up from its own county council and scrutiny committee for more than 14 months , and only disclosed it when my five Liberal Democrat Surrey MP colleagues and I publicly called it out . Surrey county council objectively contributed to the deaths of Jennifer Chalkley , Oscar Nash and Sara Sharif by ignoring existing legislation . Childhood is a precious thing . It can shape us or break us . Too many childhoods have been stolen — by poverty , abusers and the inaction of the previous Government . In Britain today , 3.5 million children are growing up in absolute poverty . More are being placed in unregistered children ’s homes , and it is estimated by the Education Policy Institute that 300,000 children are missing from the education system . Although Government Members seem to have woken up to the evils of child abuse and exploitation , they can not deny that their lack of care and urgency on these issues has made our children more vulnerable . Their failure to act has created an environment in which it is estimated that almost half a million children experience some sort of sexual abuse in this country every year , and their failure to implement a single recommendation from the Jay report has made it easier for groomers in every corner of our country to continue to rob our children of their childhood , their future and their dignity . That is the cost of the previous Government ’s do - nothing approach to child abuse , and they should be ashamed . The previous Government ’s failure has also seen councils struggle to cover the spiralling cost of placements . In Croydon , where I am privileged to be an MP , the council has had to cough up almost £ 87 million to cover the cost of child services . With 31 % of children there growing up in the shadow of poverty , Croydon ’s young people have been failed by the inaction of the previous Government . It is time to end the previous Government ’s addiction to failing our children , and support the Bill . The Bill cuts the cost of sending children to school by introducing free breakfast clubs and tackling the cost of school uniforms . It also prevents vulnerable children from falling through the cracks by bringing in a register of children who are educated from home , and introducing a unique identifier , so that children are visible across the system . The Bill is the single biggest piece of child protection legislation in a generation . A vote against it is a vote against children ’s safety , their childhoods and their future . It is shameful that , even in opposition , Conservative Members continue to drag their feet on child protection , continue to fail our children , and continue to put the interests of their party before the best interests of our country . Unlike the Opposition , we will not turn our back on our children , we will not accept failure , and we will finally put the wellbeing of our children first . Children growing up in Bournemouth deserve the best start in life — nothing less . Whoever you are , and wherever you come from , you should be able to go as far as your talents take you , and those talents should be rigorously , systematically and compassionately nourished for everyone . I would not be here but for the teachers of my childhood . I thank Alan Garner and Christine Moore — it feels really weird to name them in full . I thank Mr Garner and Mrs Moore , who did so much to enable me to get here . They stayed late in the classroom so that I could have a safe , warm place to do my homework . They inspired me to do better when circumstances told me that I could not , so thank you to them . The reality is that for many children , opportunity is too often limited , and their background can have a decisive impact on the life that they can build . I welcome the Bill because it will help every child to achieve and thrive at a school with excellent teaching and high standards . It will focus on disadvantaged children and those with special educational needs and disabilities . In Bournemouth , we have a particularly significant SEND crisis . The Bill will get children ready for the school day by providing free breakfast clubs in primary schools . I want to give a shout - out to Pokesdown community primary school . Chef Russ and Ali Bayliss are two fantastic leaders providing nutritious breakfasts for young children . The Bill will ease the financial burden on parents by limiting the number of branded uniform items . I am particularly pleased about that , because only this week , I was contacted by a constituent , Richard Merghani , based in Southbourne , who raised concerns about the cost of school uniforms . I welcome the Government ’s proposal ; estimates show that it could save parents over £ 50 per child on the back - to - school shop . I want to bring the voice of constituents and local educational experts into this debate . I am thinking of David Nayler , who has been the headteacher at Stourfield junior school for 11 years ; Lyn Gaudreau , who has been a senior principal adviser to Dorset local authority education authority ; Simon Adorian , a former headteacher ; Patrick Connolly , a former educational professional ; and Caroline Ellis , a nursery manager . They have informed everything that I would have said , if I had longer than four minutes , and everything that I will contribute as the Bill develops and passes through the Commons . I thank them for their expertise , and for what they contribute . We should really be listening to them , not Conservative Members , who have disgraced themselves in this debate and in recent days . I thank the Government Front Benchers for bringing forward the Bill and prioritising children so early in the life of this Labour Government . It feels like unfinished business . The last Labour Government did so much to improve the lot of children and young people ; we are just picking up where they left off . I look forward to seeing the Bill progress , and to the future of all our children being so much brighter .