It is an honour to be called to give my maiden speech , Ms Cummins . I start by thanking the hon . Member for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) for his speech . He spoke about a spirit in his community that you could touch ; he has a pride in his community that we can feel , and can almost touch as well . He spoke about the selflessness of service to the community , a point echoed in excellent speeches given today by the hon . Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , and for Bridlington and The Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) . It is my honour to speak in their company . Convention requires that I say a few words about my predecessor , and I have been advised that , despite political differences , these should be complimentary and civil . I have tried , but the best that I can say is that the views of the last MP for Woodstock belong to a different time — which is quite understandable , since Lord Randolph Churchill held it until the parliamentary borough of Woodstock was abolished in 1885 . For over a century , Woodstock disappeared from the constituency names in this House . Meanwhile , the town of Bicester has never previously been named in a constituency . Bicester and Woodstock is a fusion of four previous constituencies . I therefore have no immediate predecessor to refer to , but I want to thank Robert Courts , John Howell , my hon . Friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and Victoria Prentis for their service to the communities in my constituency . Like any new Member , I am eager to learn from how others have done things , so I am grateful to have such a diversity of approaches to draw on . I was fortunate to be called on to ask a question in the first Prime Minister ’s Question Time of this Parliament . I spoke then about the River Evenlode , but I could equally have referred to the Rivers Cherwell , Dorn , Glyme or Ray . Each cuts a path through my constituency and each has to carry its unfair share of pollutants from Thames Water ’s sewage spills . Tackling the pollution of our rivers and waterways was a common concern among my constituents during the election campaign , and I welcome the Prime Minister ’s undertaking to work across parties to address this scandal . Alongside our waterways , the railways are significant features of my constituency . We have no fewer than seven stations . To address the subject of this afternoon ’s debate , at each you will find passengers keen to see improvements . The travellers through Bicester North bemoan the age of the rolling stock , which breaks down far too often , and the shortened trains with their inadequate seating . Constituents near Bicester Village are deeply concerned about the future closure of the London Road level crossing , which would cut off those living in south - east Bicester from the rest of the town . I hope the Rail Minister , to whom I have written , will respond positively to my request to ensure that East West Rail brings forward sufficient funding for alternative crossings for all users . Another feature of my constituency is the rapid proposed growth of towns and villages , under plans adopted by the last Government and supported by Conservative local councils in 2017 . Bicester has already seen tremendous growth . A similar scale of development is planned for Eynsham and the wider Kidlington area , including Begbrooke and Yarnton . As this Government prepare for an increase in housing provision , the lessons from areas like those in my constituency must be learned . My constituents understand the need for more homes for local residents , and especially for those who can not access social housing , but they want to know that sufficient infrastructure will accompany new homes . I am talking about not just improvements to the hard engineering for travel , grid connections , sewage and other utilities , but also the social infrastructure of schools , GP surgeries , dispensing chemists and NHS dentists , as well as community , youth and sports centres . We must make sure that these services are funded and delivered before new homes are released . I have lived in the constituency for over 12 years , and my wife and I have raised our four children there . They attend local schools and are active in local sports clubs . Long before I ran for this election , they ensured that I knew the future constituency well by dragging me to most of the sports grounds and sports halls that it contains . I owe my place to the many voters who put me here , but I would not be here without the steadfast support of my family , and I am so pleased that they are here today . For some , that support has come with encouragement ; for others , it comes with occasional embarrassment about my endeavours . But from all , it has come with love , affection , and a willingness to keep me grounded through the occasional well - deserved put - down . I am truly grateful to them and hope that they know how much I appreciate their support . My constituency contains a vibrant mix of communities beyond its two towns . Famously , Kidlington contends to be the largest village in England , with its population of over 13,000 . When the parish council suggested in 1987 that it was a town , irate residents forced it to back down and reinstate village status . That does not , however , explain why groups of Chinese Harry Potter fans were spotted taking photos outside suburban homes in the village in 2016 . Despite extensive searches , I never found the Dursleys of Privet Drive on the electoral roll . One of the greatest pleasures of representing this area is travelling across its stunning countryside and discovering the passion for history , environment and community that burns in each town and village . I can not do justice to that diversity today , but I say thank you to the thousands of constituents who contribute to their communities as town and parish councillors , school governors , village fête organisers , wildlife champions , Royal British Legion fundraisers , youth sports coaches , or food bank collectors , and in many other roles besides . Every week , as I visit organisations in the constituency , I am inspired by the selfless actions of those who put community first and build stronger relationships , one freely given hour at a time . It is that sense of community and of what we can do for each other that brought me here today . From volunteering as a school governor , I came to see how both the setting and implementation of national policy had deep local impacts . I became a county councillor in 2021 and saw up close how local government has been hollowed out by national funding decisions that respected neither the role that local authorities play in delivering critical services , nor the unique insights they hold at local level about the needs of their residents . Those experiences put me on the path towards standing for election , and it is a huge honour now to be a Member of this House . I hope that during my time here I can serve my community with the same selflessness and energy shown by so many of my constituents .