It is a pleasure to follow the hon . Member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who gave a passionate if controversial maiden speech . It is also a pleasure to follow my hon . Friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) , whose father - in - law is one of my predecessors as MP for Northwich . I pay tribute to Mike Hall , whose contribution towards getting the funding we needed to stop the town sinking into a big hole of subsidence was vital . I am grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the House for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate on sport , following the incredible achievements of our Olympians and Paralympians at this year ’s games . We are lucky enough to have a great record of sporting success in Mid Cheshire . Our own Paula Radcliffe , who needs no introduction , achieved incredible feats in athletics over her long career , smashing the marathon world record . Northwich rowing club ’s Matt Langridge won gold at Rio in the men ’s eight . The club , which has a proud tradition of breaking the perception of rowing as an elitist sport , told me about the “ Matt Langridge ” effect , as more young people have taken up the sport with that club than ever before . And this year , the awe - inspiring Poppy Maskill , from Middlewich , who was mentioned by the shadow Minister , not only swam her way to five medals , a world record and the accolade of being the most successful British athlete at this year ’s Paralympics , but was given the honour of being the GB flagbearer at the closing ceremony . I can not leave this list without mentioning my mum , who got the running bug after I was born — I do not think the two are related — and went on to win the gold medal in the 10,000 metres at the European veterans championships in 2013 . All these athletes , and others like them , have been an inspiration to the next generation of runners , rowers and swimmers . It is fitting that we honour them and their achievements today . It is a tremendous honour to have been elected to represent Mid Cheshire , and our three great and historic salt towns of Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich . The last constituency to bear the name — back then , a two - member constituency with a strong pedigree of electing men with beards and the same surname — was abolished in 1885 . Thanks to 139 years of boundary changes , I now pay tribute to not one but four predecessors . Mid Cheshire gained the village of Rudheath from the right hon . Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who has represented the area since 2017 . I thank her for her service . It seems that Rudheath ’s loss is Lymm ’s gain , and I am sure the people of Lymm can look forward to many years of common - sense solutions to the challenges they face . Middlewich was transferred from Congleton , formerly represented by Fiona Bruce . She served as a Member of this House for 14 years and , prior to that , as a councillor in Warrington for six years , a remarkable 20 years of public service that is testament to Fiona ’s character . I know her former constituents appreciated her hard work and advocacy on their behalf , and her focus in Parliament on championing the right to freedom of religion and belief . I pay tribute to her as a campaigner for better transport infrastructure in her constituency , something on which I hope to build in my time here . I gained Winsford from the former constituency of Eddisbury , represented by Edward Timpson from 2019 , who prior to that served as the Member for Crewe and Nantwich . Edward ’s outstanding work on improving the life chances of fostered children will undoubtedly shape his political legacy . Edward said in an interview in 2014 that he would not have been Children ’s Minister and he would not have been a family lawyer if his parents had not fostered . He may no longer be a Member of Parliament , but I am certain we have not seen the last of Edward ’s contribution to public life . Finally , I pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . Friend the Member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , who has represented Northwich these past seven years . Colleagues from across the House will know of his loyalty and his diligence , as well as his successful campaign from Opposition to make school uniforms cheaper for all . He has been unfailingly kind and supportive towards me , and extremely generous with his time and sound advice . I was until recently a councillor in Northwich , so I know at first hand how assiduously my hon . Friend worked on behalf of his former constituents , and how highly regarded he is locally . He certainly leaves some big shoes to fill . Each of my predecessors would have been a worthy custodian of the constituent parts that now form Mid Cheshire , but these areas are not just names on a map — they are vibrant communities , each with its own natural beauty , rich history and promising future . The towns of Northwich , Middlewich and Winsford were predicated on the salt industry . From the Roman era to the industrial revolution , these towns have been shaped by the salt deposits found beneath their foundations and their strategic location at the confluence of several waterways that have been exploited to support trade , transport and our communities ’ growth . In the best tradition of British innovation , the people of Mid Cheshire have found interesting things to do with the holes in the ground after the salt has been removed . The Adelaide mine in Northwich once hosted a banquet for Emperor Nicholas I of Russia , with over 10,000 candles illuminating the orange crystal banqueting hall , all 130 feet below the surface . Today , the Winsford salt mine keeps the nation ’s secrets , with over 33 km worth of papers from the National Archives stored safely underground , while just outside Middlewich , preparations are well under way to store the hydrogen produced by Cheshire ’s Hynet project in the salt seam below . The salt mines , canals and rivers that run through my constituency have played a pivotal role in shaping the local economy and culture and each has left an indelible mark on our landscape and identity . But these towns are not just about salt and their storied past ; today , they are thriving places that are built on resilience , innovation and community spirit . Northwich is a vibrant town with an exciting and lively events programme . The Now Northwich international dance and street arts extravaganza has delighted visitors with giant insects , peacocks , princesses and rainbow butterflies , while the annual Piña Colada festival , inspired by Northwich - born Rupert Holmes ’s song “ Escape ” , which I will not provide a rendition of now , has become an important fixture of life in the town centre . These events and dozens more like them would not be possible without the council , local businesses , rotarians and community groups all pulling together and supporting the town centre to make it the events capital of Cheshire . There is pride in our community , with people willing it to succeed in the face of 14 years of managed decline under the previous Government . It was in Northwich in 1933 that polythene was accidently discovered by ICI researchers , and , in Winsford today , we have companies dealing with that industrial legacy , eliminating single - use plastics and recycling them . Indeed , Winsford is home to more than 200 innovative companies , from creators of advanced tissue - healing technologies to developers of a sophisticated AI model to keep people safe from plant and equipment on construction projects all over the world . But the true lifeblood of Mid Cheshire lies in its people . They are compassionate , friendly , and proud of their heritage . They are people like Julie , Diane or Matthew , running charities to help people with Down ’s syndrome , autism , and muscular dystrophy . They are people like John , Alan or Janet , volunteering hours of their time to keep the parks and the streets of Winsford Northwich and Middlewich looking their best . They are people like Catherine and Ant who have kept our community fed , and people like Gale and Jess who have helped more people in Winsford than I could begin to count . They and hundreds like them are at the heart of our community . They are the custodians of our history , and the architects of our future , and , despite the challenging times that we are facing , I am convinced that it is a future filled with promise and possibility . I have long believed that the people of our three great Mid Cheshire salt towns , and , indeed , our country , want a Government who are on their side . They want politics and politicians to serve them , to end the chaos and dysfunction of Westminster and to rebuild our country . The key mission of this Labour Government is to restore trust in politics , to show that politics can be a force for good , and to demonstrate that politics and politicians can deliver for people and change lives for the better . I promise always to do my best to serve and represent my constituents , to work tirelessly to deliver the change that people have voted for , and to repay the trust that the people of Mid Cheshire have placed in me .