I start by congratulating the hon . Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , the hon . Member for Guildford ( Zöe Franklin ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and the hon . Member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speeches . It is great to start my time in this place by proving no fewer than five colleagues wrong about their constituency being the best , because obviously that is an award that belongs to the people of Milton Keynes North . This is such an important debate on an issue that affects many of my constituents and those of other Members representing Milton Keynes . I am glad to hear that this Government will work to ensure that everyone feels safe in their home . As the brother of one of our brave local firefighters in Milton Keynes , I echo the comments of many colleagues who paid tribute to those in our emergency services who have dealt with such incidents . I hope that they have to deal with far fewer in future . It is an immense honour to stand here today as the new MP for Milton Keynes North . I am deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of Milton Keynes but many of the beautiful villages and historic towns around which it was built . In my constituency lies the old market town of Olney , where 250 years ago the timeless hymn “ Amazing Grace ” was penned . There is Wolverton , which boasts the oldest operational railway works in the world ; Stony Stratford , where I am told the term “ cock and bull story ” originated — thankfully not something we are known for in this place — and Newport Pagnell , which for over half a century hosted the headquarters of Aston Martin . Next week marks 60 years since the release of the film “ Goldfinger ” , in which the most famous car in the world , the DB5 , made its debut . Last week , I had the pleasure to visit Aston Martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of “ On Her Majesty ’s Secret Service ” was filmed . Can I promise that my contributions in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenaline of those films ? No , I can not , but as the MP representing towns with such fascinating pasts , I promise that I will fight to give them all an even brighter future . I start by paying tribute to my predecessor , Ben Everitt . He worked tirelessly to try to secure a much needed women ’s and children ’s hospital for Milton Keynes . As we now have some of the longest NHS waiting lists in the country , it is an important campaign , and I will be sure to take up its reins . He also chaired the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which looked at how we fix the broken planning system — some of the issues have been discussed today . I hope that this new Government take forward many of the recommendations that emerged from that work as we strive to build the 1.5 million new homes that this country needs . I would like to take a moment to mention my Labour predecessor and friend , the late Brian White . Brian was a true champion of Milton Keynes . He saw the potential in our city long before it was fully realised and , as an MP , local councillor and later mayor , Brian was a tireless advocate for our community . He was never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of us who knew him can attest . One of those battles was the successful fight to keep the laws in this place written on vellum . Unfortunately , we have since moved to a compromise position where only the front covers of each Act are printed that way , but since the only remaining vellum manufacturer in the country , William Cowley , is based in my constituency , I will fight with everything I can to keep what is left of this important 175 - year - old tradition . As the first MP for Milton Keynes who was born , and grew up , there , I would like to talk about the many men and women who built the new town — now city — that I call home . One in particular is Fred Roche , the man who led the Milton Keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromising vision . The mantra that everybody on that team lived by was , “ Make no little plans ” . Fred was a streetfighter , who more than anything else was willing to do what was needed to achieve something that many others have considered impossible : getting money out of the Treasury . Allegedly , he insisted on constructing the outer roads of Milton Keynes first , making it harder for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those working on HS2 wish they had thought of . He also once marched into Whitehall on Christmas eve and refused to leave until his budgets were approved . I just mention to the Government Front Bench that those are tactics I will not rule out using in the future . [ Laughter . ] For Members across the Chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visited Milton Keynes , what Fred and his team built was nothing short of a masterpiece . At times when families right across our country were living in substandard conditions — many would echo some of the comments we have heard today — and many were living without even an indoor toilet , Milton Keynes offered a beacon of hope . High - quality homes were built for tens of thousands of new residents and , at its peak , 10 families were moving in every single day . In just a few decades , what was once a vision on a planner ’s desk had transformed into one of the UK ’s most dynamic economic powerhouses . Today , we are home to Santander UK , one of the biggest banks in the country , and Red Bull Racing , the fastest Formula 1 team on the planet — when I spoke to Aston Martin last week , it told me to take out that line . [ Laughter . ] The city of pioneers and innovators creates more start - ups than almost anywhere else , boasts a growing tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and ranks as one of the most productive places in the country . For every pound that Fred did manage to squeeze out of the Treasury ’s tight grasp , we have repaid it many , many times over . And while it may be known for its concrete cows , it is far from a concrete jungle . Some 40 % of our city is comprised of green spaces . Alongside those are our beautiful lakes , rivers and canals . Every child , including me , grew up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . It is said that planting a tree is one of the greatest acts of altruism . We dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generations to come . Fred Roche and the team planted more than a fair few trees . In fact , Milton Keynes boasts over 22 million trees , more than 80 per person . But I would argue that building a new town is an even greater act of altruism . Fred passed away a few years before I was born , but I stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefited from his vision . Thanks to Fred ’s design , my young parents were able to scrape together enough to raise me and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . The dream of home ownership became a reality for them , providing us with the security and stability needed for the best start in life . The parks and green spaces they created back then may one day be enjoyed by my own children . Now , I will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenges , ones I will work tirelessly to address in this place , but Milton Keynes was built on that new town promise of good jobs , public services that were there when you needed them , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new homes . It is a place that gave me the opportunities , so that I could one day be standing here , giving my maiden speech in the House of Commons . I mention that because in my short time in politics I have noticed that too often people search for excuses to oppose new developments . There is a view , or has been a view , that it is more politically convenient to be a voice that yells no , rather than a voice that searches for ways to say yes . And while the acronym “ nimby ” may be a modern invention , the sentiment is not . Glancing through Hansard of the ’ 60s and ’ 70s , we find countless examples of opposition to the building of my hometown . But there are consequences to that short - term political thinking . If it was not for Fred and the Milton Keynes development corporation team ’s ambition , backed by the 1960s Labour Government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and I grew up in would never have existed . As a proud son of Milton Keynes , I can think of no mission more important for this new Government than to build the new towns and new homes that this country needs . It will require us to embrace the spirit of Fred Roche — visionary , unyielding in the face of opposition , and making no little plans — but it will allow us to build a future where every child in Britain has the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurtures their potential , as mine did for me .