I am grateful to my hon . Friend , who makes such a powerful point and speaks with such authority . Similar points were made by my hon . Friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who as a paediatrician spoke with great expertise on this matter . It is absolutely true : it is a false choice . It is not a freedom of choice ; it is a choice to become addicted and that then removes your choice . Every year , more than 100,000 children aged between 11 and 15 light their first cigarette . What they can look forward to is a life of addiction to nicotine , spending thousands of pounds a year , making perhaps 30 attempts to quit , with all the misery that involves , and then experiencing life - limiting , entirely preventable suffering . Two thirds of them will die before their time . Some 83 % of people start smoking before the age of 20 , which is why we need to have the guts to create the first smoke - free generation across the United Kingdom , making sure that children turning 15 or younger this year will never be legally sold tobacco . That is the single biggest intervention that we can make to improve our nation ’s health . Smoking is responsible for about 80,000 deaths every year , but it would still be worth taking action if the real figure were half that , or even a tenth of it . There is also a strong economic case for the Bill . Every year , smoking costs our country at least £ 17 billion , far more than the £ 10 billion of tax revenue that it draws in . It costs our NHS and social care system £ 3 billion every year , with someone admitted to hospital with a smoking - related illness almost every minute of every day , and 75,000 GP appointments every week for smoking - related problems . That is a massive and totally preventable waste of resources . For those of us on this side of the House who are trying hard to increase access to the NHS and enable more patients to see their GPs , this is a really good target on which to focus . On the positive side , creating a smoke - free generation could deliver productivity gains of nearly £ 2 billion within a decade , potentially reaching £ 16 billion by 2056 , improving work prospects , boosting efficiency and driving the economic growth that we need in order to pay for the first - class public services that we all want . I know that hon . Members who oppose the Bill are doing so with the best of intentions . They argue that adults should be free to make their own decisions , and I get that . What we are urging them to do is make their own free decision to choose to be addicted to nicotine , but that is not in fact a choice , and I urge them to look at the facts . Children start smoking because of peer pressure , and because of persistent marketing telling them that it is cool . I know from experience how hard it is , once hooked , to kick the habit . I took up smoking at the age of 14 . My little sister was 12 at the time , and we used to buy 10 No . 6 and a little book of matches and — yes — smoke behind the bicycle shed , and at the bus stop on the way home from school . [ Interruption . ] Yes , I know : I am outing myself here . Having taken up smoking at the age of 14 , I was smoking 40 a day by the age of 20 , and as a 21st birthday present to myself I gave up . But today , 40 years later — I am now 60 , so do the maths — with all this talk of smoking , I still feel like a fag sometimes . That is how addictive smoking is . This is not about freedom to choose ; it is about freedom from addiction . There is another angle . Those in the tobacco industry are , of course , issuing dire warnings of unintended consequences from the raising of the age of sale . They say that it will cause an explosion in the black market . That is exactly what they said when the age of sale rose from 16 to 18 , but the opposite happened : the number of illicit cigarettes consumed fell by a quarter , and at the same time smoking rates among 16 and 17 - year - olds in England fell by almost a third . Raising the age of sale is a tried and tested policy , and a policy that is supported not only by a majority of retailers — which , understandably , has been mentioned by a number of Members — but by more than 70 % of the British public .