Before this Government were elected , we said that we would change this country , and we will . To get change done , any Government have to stand on firm foundations , which is why , as we have just heard from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , we promised to be responsible with the public ’s money . We know that every penny counts in this mission , because if we fail to protect the public purse , we fail to protect the purses of the public . Family finances can never withstand fantasy economics . That was supposed to be the whole point of the welfare cap . It was designed to help better control public spending , counting the cost of the rising price of failure . I will come to some of the failures we are now seeing and the people thrown on the scrapheap as a result of the failure of 14 years of economic policy , particularly on the labour market . The welfare cap was intended to ensure that the cost of important parts of the social security system , such as universal credit — though not counting those actively looking for work — the personal independence payment and pension credit , remains predictable and affordable . Only the state pension and benefits for unemployed households were excluded . What was the result of a decade of Conservative welfare caps ? Repeated breaches of the cap , with ever higher limits . The latest cap is now on course to be breached by an £ 8.6 billion overspend . This is not tolerable , given the state of our economy and the public finances . Worse still , there is the human cost for every single person who could be enjoying the benefits of work but has been denied the choices and chances they deserve . I regularly meet people in that position . There is the young person who has not recovered from the dreadful legacy of the pandemic — not in college , not starting their first job , barely even able to go out with friends , and bearing the burden of the mental health crisis that our young people face . I believe the pandemic generation was completely let down . There are our older relatives who have been pushed out of work before their time with hip or knee pain . The NHS is just not able to help them at the moment , and they are not even getting advice about how to make ends meet . That is the legacy we inherited , and it is not good enough for anybody . It is also the legacy of low growth , the higher cost of living and high inactivity , with employment and social security systems ill equipped to meet the requirements of an older , sicker nation . That is the Conservative party ’s record . Unfortunately , this breach — forecast as far back as March 2023 but ignored — is now wholly unavoidable in this fiscal year , given the scale of failure we have inherited . We will not duck the difficult decisions needed to restore economic stability , and we will deal with the failure we see before us . Before I say how we will do that , I want to reflect on exactly how we ended up in this situation . The sad truth is that , in way too many parts of the country , too many people are denied the opportunity to have a good job so that they can support themselves and put a roof over their family ’s heads . The benefits bill only reflects that failure , with 2.8 million people locked out of the workforce due to poor health , and 3.4 million more working - age people reporting a long - term health condition than 10 years ago . We have large numbers of people turning up to a social security system that is not geared up to meet what has become the greatest unemployment challenge of a generation .