It is an honour to make my maiden speech , particularly on this critically important debate on the infected blood scandal . I ask the House to allow me a temporary shift in tone , so that I can celebrate the community that sent me here . Like many hon . Members ’ constituencies , the constituency I have the privilege to represent , Leeds North West , is a new seat with a long history . I am sure most Members know where Leeds is , but I describe it as being right at the heart of the UK . I am deeply grateful to the thousands of voters who have put their trust in me , and as I said on election night , regardless of how they voted , I am determined to represent and serve our community in this place . I begin by paying tribute to my immediate predecessors , both of whom are still Members of this House . I thank the right hon . Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for being gracious and friendly and for his commitment to our community , especially Guiseley , and I thank my hon . Friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and his fantastic team for their commitment to our community and to tackling climate change . I also pay tribute to those who came before : Greg Mulholland , Paul Truswell and the late Harold Best , who all have a continued presence in the constituency . Those esteemed gentlemen have all fought for our communities , and I am honoured to stand on their shoulders , but I say “ gentlemen ” for good reason : I am proud to be the first woman ever to represent Leeds North West , the place where I was born and raised , as were my parents before me . Seeing more women elected to Parliament than ever before matters . It matters to the women and girls across our communities — to Alice in Otley , Navdeeb in Adel and Chloe in Horsforth . We have not had enough female MPs in my home city , but we are making up for lost time . Leeds now boasts the first female Chancellor ever , so there is progress , friends , progress . Leeds North West has an incredible history . The stunning Norman church in Adel dates back to the 12th century ; it is where my parents were married , where I was christened , and where my grandfather lies at rest . Further west is Otley Chevin . Members may not yet have had the chance to visit Otley Chevin , but we would not be here without it . The stone from the Chevin provided the foundations for this very Parliament when it was rebuilt in the 1840s . It should not be a surprise that it is Yorkshire that keeps this House grounded . In Leeds North West , our feet are always planted firmly on that bedrock , but our eyes remain on the horizon , ready to embrace the future . Our constituency is a vibrant hub of entrepreneurship and creativity , a legacy that continues to thrive today . Abraham Moon in Guiseley , a fabric company established in 1837 , still supplies international fashion houses today , while EMIS — which began in the 1980s in Horsforth — now flourishes in beautiful Rawdon as the leading provider of data support to the NHS . We are home to West Yorkshire ’s only airport , Leeds Bradford , and I was pleased to meet with Jet2 ’s chief executive officer Steve just this week to discuss how the aviation sector can innovate to decarbonise . Should Members wish to stop for a bite to eat , they should look no further than the thriving bars and restaurants of vibrant Horsforth . It is a constituency bursting with joyful community fairs and fetes , from Guiseley festival to Yeadon carnival and from Rawdon summer gala to the Arthington and Bramhope shows — that last one comes complete with a human fruit machine . There is no stronger pride than Yorkshire pride , and our community spirit is a great source of strength . However , as in many places , people are feeling overwhelmed and concerned about their future and that of their children and grandchildren . Many of the people I have met on the doorstep also feel let down — let down by politicians and by the institutions they have put their trust in over decades . The infected blood scandal is the most extreme and harrowing example of such systematic failure : people placed their trust in doctors and the Government to protect them , and that trust was betrayed . I am proud that this Government and this Prime Minister will introduce a duty of candour law to prevent future cover - ups like the infected blood and Post Office scandals . I also share deep concerns about the other great challenges facing our community . Mental health figures are horrifying . The Global Mind Project has revealed that the UK has the highest rate of mental distress in the world and ranks second worst in overall mental health . People are working harder , yet getting unhealthier and unhappier , and of course , the climate and nature crisis looms . We need things to change ; the country voted for change , and it is change that propelled me into politics . My journey began with the climate crisis . We know that if we get it wrong , we face disaster — particularly for the most vulnerable among us — but if we get it right , we unlock enormous opportunities for our society . In 2003 , I joined the local Leeds branch of Friends of the Earth and launched a campaign for the UK ’s first climate change Bill . Everyone told me that it was impossible ; that it was too ambitious and too radical . There was no way that the Treasury would ever allow a carbon budget — but , friends , they did . We turned that campaign into the fourth most supported campaign in Parliament ’s history , with cross - party backing from Members across the House . The last Labour Government turned that Bill into an Act in 2008 , under my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , whom I am honoured to be working with again . Under this Act , Britain decarbonised faster than any other rich country . This Act has now become a global benchmark adopted by other nations — and that , I say to my hon . Friends , is what global leadership looks like . Why am I sharing this ? It is because politics must be about real change or it is about nothing . I want to serve our community , and improve our schools , healthcare and public services . When I think about change , I think about my grandmother , Marjorie Simms . She challenged the status quo . She lived in Horsforth in the1950s . There were not that many women driving then , but Marjorie did . There were not that many women wearing trousers , but Marjorie did . Majorie developed breast cancer , and most parents in the 1950s avoided talking to their children , but Marjorie showed them her mastectomy so they could understand . She died at 43 , the age I entered Parliament . Majorie did things differently and her spirit lives on in me . We have seen too much promise and too little delivery in recent years — endless debates about challenges , but a lack of energy for real solutions . Politics should be about action , not just words . The seeds of change can be seen within our communities . As a Government , our role is to water them and create the conditions for them to flourish . Leeds North West is willing to play its role in full . We have the leaders , we have the ideas and we have the “ get stuff done ” attitude that personifies Yorkshire — like the students I met recently at Ralph Thoresby and Green Meadows or the cadets in my constituency , who are ambitious about the difference we can make ; like the Horsforth shed set up a couple of years ago by ex - teachers based on the national men ’s shed model and supporting male mental health , but expanded to include many other vulnerable members of the community ; like those from Otley 2030 who decided they wanted to be a beacon of hope and created a living laboratory in the town to create climate friendly and sustainable solutions where people and nature thrive ; and like Brian who , after a death in Morrisons car park in Guiseley , set up defibrillators all over the community so that lifesaving equipment is on hand and there is a network of community activists servicing them . Let us not forget the gold medal Olympians in our community — the Brownlee brothers and the cyclist Tom Pidcock — who inspire us all with their dedication and achievements . We are indeed a hotbed of world - class talent . People in Leeds North West do not wait for change to come to them ; they make it happen . They are the doers and the problem solvers , and I will play my role in that same way . I will champion the green agenda by focusing on practical solutions that carve a British path towards a successful green transition . We will leverage our strengths , whether it is world - leading research , supporting our best business minds , or unlocking the public and private investment needed to turbocharge a green economy . I will support the health of our community — mental health , physical health , community health — and I want to support our entrepreneurs and creativity to grow our region . I promise to be a ferocious champion for my community , my beloved Yorkshire and our country , and I will do it with joy . It may recently have become more fashionable across the pond , but I have been measuring with joy for years , and there is always space for a little more joy . Finally , I promise to listen , learn and reflect . No one has all the answers , but all of us have some of them . I commit to working constructively and collectively . I will endeavour to arrive with curiosity and non - judgment , because if we want to change the way we do things , we must start in this moment , in this place and with these actions .