May I begin by welcoming the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . Friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , to her place ? This has been a good and full debate . It has , in large part , been fairly well - informed , although I thought the quality of the offerings from behind me was a little ahead of that from in front . None the less , it has been a good and passionate debate . No effort today was in any way better than that of my hon . Friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) , who gave us a virtuoso example of a maiden speech . He referred to the fact that it was in his constituency that Winston Churchill first uttered the immortal words , “ Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few . ” Of course , Churchill then repeated that in this Chamber , but not with the same eloquence as my hon . Friend , and he certainly did not manage to squeeze in a tribute to the Middlesex Arms , my hon . Friend ’s local pub , where I am sure a free beer awaits him — that is probably where he is at this very moment . Now that I too , in addition to him , have mentioned his local pub , I hope that a second pint awaits him . There are certain things that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , and I can agree on , and smoking is one of them . I was interested to learn that she is a former smoker . They always say that former smokers have a passionate desire to stop other people smoking , and she certainly demonstrated that . We know that one in four cancers is caused by smoking . As a father of three young daughters , vaping is of great concern to me personally , and I was pleased to see the reference in the King ’s Speech to getting on top of those kinds of products and the way in which they are retailed . The hon . Lady also mentioned mental health , as did many of this afternoon ’s speakers . We have said that we will come forward with a mental health Bill if parliamentary time allows , and of course that does not mean we have not already done a very great deal in exactly that space , or will not do a great deal further . Some £ 2 billion of extra funding is already going into mental healthcare compared with four years ago , with a 20 % increase in staffing since 2010 . It does not stop there : we will also be bringing forward mental health hospitals and 100 specialist ambulances .