Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for calling me . I congratulate the hon . Members for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) and for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) on making excellent maiden speeches today . I am so honoured to be here in this historic Chamber today as part of a brand - new group of Green colleagues , who I must now call my honourable Friends . We are very pleased today to hear a wide range of new Bills being proposed . We welcome some measures . Some we will seek to improve and some we will seek to change or add to . Listening to people in my constituency during the election , it was hard not to be affected by the strength of public feeling and distress about the climate emergency and the degradation of our natural environment , and by the huge desire to defend social justice and public services . This Parliament must seek to deliver for them . This is my maiden speech ; I stand here thanks to the votes and values of the fantastic people of Brighton Pavilion . They have put their trust in me and the Green party , and for that I extend my heartfelt thanks and appreciation . Brighton has always been a truly special place , from its origins as a fishing village and Roman villa complex , to its Regency and railway booms , with its huge sense of spirit and a warm welcome to every visitor to our famous beach . But Brighton has always been so much more than a seaside resort . The richness and variety of our culture and entertainment is legendary . From Victorian innovation , through the 1960s of my parents and my own decade of youth in the far away 1990s , to the present day , our music , theatre , comedy and literary traditions have always blended with cutting - edge , creative and exciting counter- culture movements to reflect and enrich the modern world . Our cultural richness has survived , strived , struggled and then thrived through many turbulent times , not least the recent pandemic , and I am confident it will continue to do so for many centuries to come . I am proud that the latest census confirms that nowadays my city is home to one of the UK ’s largest populations of LGBT+ people , and that we host the biggest and best Pride celebrations , including Europe ’s largest Trans Pride , which will be this weekend . Brighton and Hove is a welcoming city in so many ways , and I am very proud we are a city of sanctuary , committed to a culture of hospitality and welcome for those seeking refuge from war and persecution . Brighton Pavilion has a history of dedicated , long - serving MPs . From its first election as a single - member constituency in 1950 , it was represented until 1969 by Sir William Burke Teeling , an Irish writer and self - described “ amateur tramp ” , who walked from London to Newcastle to explore how councils were tackling unemployment . Our MP was then Julian Amery for 23 years and Derek Spencer for five years , before David Lepper served in this House as a highly - respected and hardworking MP for 13 years . And , of course , I have one of the easiest and most pleasurable jobs among new MPs in paying tribute to my immediate predecessor . Brighton is also a special place because it has been at the heart of the green movement in England and Wales , and that continued when our own , beloved Caroline Lucas won the seat for the Green party in 2010 . Caroline held the seat through three further elections , leaving a 14 - year legacy that I look up to as a shining mountain to climb , as I take my very first steps here today . As well as being an excellent constituency MP , of the many ways in which Caroline influenced policy , I was most charmed by her success in working with the nature writer Mary Colwell to win a new GCSE in natural history . Helping to inspire and train up a generation of new David Attenboroughs is a real national service . Most impressive has been Caroline ’s steadfast and long - standing opposition to threats to the public ’s right to protest . Caroline lived that principle and through it played a key role in ending fracking in the UK . I know that all of us sitting here today are humbly aiming to live up to the high standards , values and work ethic that she represented , and to serve here with the same energy and enthusiasm . It is those principles that will guide my work as an MP , as well as some of my own values and enthusiasms . People who know my work in other places will be aware that listening to and supporting young people is something I feel very strongly about . With huge pleasure , I commend to the House the incredible work of Brighton and Hove Citizens , which has just won a huge campaigning victory with a beautiful example of raising up and empowering young people and their voices to make change happen . With schools across Brighton and Hove working with colleges , religious groups , workers , universities and the charity sector , Brighton and Hove Citizens has this year won a big new commitment from the council . After a long and engaging campaign , sixth formers Fi Abou - Chanad and Tally Wilcox presented a 2,000 signature - strong petition and won a pledge for hundreds of young people in Brighton schools to benefit from investment in mental health support and counselling . That is just one group of young people among many inspiring organisations across our country that I can not wait to hear more about in this job . They include Green New Deal Rising , the UK Youth Climate Coalition , YoungMinds , People & Planet , the National Society of Apprentices , the National Union of Students and many more . Young people should have a louder voice wherever decisions are being made , not just when they organise . I am therefore disappointed to see no specific Bill in today ’s list removing barriers to voting for young people , including voter ID and age limits for elections to this House and English local councils that do not apply in Wales and Scotland . Our 16 and 17 - year - olds , and our young people , need a real voice and need those measures in this Parliament . I hope that , when we debate the Bills put forward in today ’s King ’s Speech , the voices of young people are sought out and listened to , and that many changes and additions are made where they are needed most , including removing the two - child benefit cap . I am grateful for the patience of hon . Members in listening to me . I greatly look forward to seeing the impact of the young voices I plan to raise up in this Chamber being granted the same attention and respect .