I call Greg Stafford to make his maiden speech . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Greg Stafford ) for describing his constituency so passionately . While we may strongly disagree on the need for growth and new development in this country , we may agree more on the future of our NHS , and I look forward to working together on that ambition . I am a proud Londoner , and like many Londoners I was not actually born here ; I am delighted to share with you that I was born in Manchester and my family comes from Lancashire . In fact , for most of my childhood I was aware of only one football team — the Bolton Wanderers — but for the last 42 years London has been my home , and the chance to represent my home city is truly a special honour . I put on record my thanks to the residents of the Cities of London and Westminster for placing their trust in me as their representative . I start by thanking Nickie Aiken for her service . She is a pioneer , as the first woman to represent the Cities of London and Westminster , and is remembered fondly by many residents . She has shown me kindness and offered her advice , for which I am grateful . I know that here and across the constituency she will be remembered for her tireless work campaigning to regulate pedicabs , and her work to end the Vagrancy Act 1824 and deliver the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I also pay tribute to my good friend Karen Buck , who represented the St John ’s Wood neighbourhood wards of Abbey Road and Regent ’s Park , which joined the two Cities constituency in the recent boundary review . When walking through Westminster with Karen , it is hard to find anyone in her constituency who does not know her and has not been helped by her . Through her tireless casework for tens of thousands of constituents , and her Homes ( Fitness for Human Habitation ) Act 2018 , Karen has made an outstanding contribution to lives in Westminster and beyond . She is a fearless representative and campaigner and a kind and wise friend . I am so grateful for her advice , and will do my very best to live up to her high standards . From 1977 to 2001 , the two Cities were represented by Peter Brooke , who is remembered for his work as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and later as the Secretary of State for National Heritage . Finally , I also remember J. S. Mill , who represented the City of Westminster from 1865 to 1868 , and who in 1866 became the first person in the history of Parliament to call for women to be given the right to vote . I hope that he would be happy to see Nickie , Karen and I delivering on his pioneering work for equality here in the two Cities . Truly , when a woman is tired of London she is tired of life . The Cities of London and Westminster are home to great cultural institutions : the national gallery , the royal opera house , the commercial centres of Oxford Street and Edgware Road , innovative start - ups alongside major international corporations , the Government here in Westminster and Whitehall , the international financial centre of the City of London , the beautiful Hyde Park , Regent ’s Park and St James ’s Park alongside the residential squares of Belgravia and Marylebone , and yes , Buckingham Palace . Many Members will know the neighbourhoods of Soho , Fitzrovia and Covent Garden as places to spend a night out . In fact , tens of thousands of people live here . We have St Bartholomew ’s , one of London ’s oldest churches , Bevis Marks , the oldest practising synagogue in the UK , and London Central Mosque . Just minutes away from Parliament we have the Peabody estates of Westminster , the pioneering and beautifully designed Churchill Gardens and Lillington and Longmore estates , the architectural delights of the Barbican , Golden Lane and the historic communities of Petticoat Square and the Guinness estate in Portsoken ward . All those places are home to diverse communities living side by side , but also to inequality and injustice , and the struggle to find a stable , affordable and decent home is holding people in my constituency back from meeting their potential . That struggle is holding our city and our country back from meeting our potential . Tackling the housing crisis has brought me into politics , and this debate on the King ’s Speech proposals for economic growth is an important time to highlight the situation that many of my constituents face . Nearly 20 years ago , I worked at the Treasury on the Barker review of planning . It is with sadness that I note that we are still not delivering the homes we need . I am determined that this Government will deliver on our promise to build more affordable homes . Ending no - fault evictions will bring certainty and security for the approximately 40 % of households in the Cities of London and Westminster who are renting privately . Our cross - Government strategy will put Britain back on track to ending homelessness , rough sleeping and temporary accommodation , which have been rising here for years and are harming so many . I am grateful to organisations such as The Passage and The Connection here in the two Cities for doing so much to support vulnerable people . The Cities of London and Westminster has one of the highest proportions of leasehold homes in the country . Residential leasehold is trapping tenants with unaccountable landlords , and I am pleased the Government have pledged a leasehold and commonhold reform Bill . It is characteristic of such an international place that global patterns affect our local communities . The rise of short - term letting and the risk of dirty money in property are contributing to a loss of homes for Londoners , and as their representative here I am determined to tackle that . I will be standing up for our local hospital and St Mary ’s in Paddington , and continuing our campaign to secure funding for the redevelopment of London ’s major trauma centre . The story of the two Cities is one that is optimistic , outward - looking , hard - working and driven . I hope to continue to represent this place in that fashion . I am the first Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament to ever represent this historic constituency , and I join colleagues in closing with a pledge to approach this new Parliament with a renewed commitment to respectful debate and disagreement . Elections are a time to make a choice . Now that a decision has been made , it is time to move forward with a relentless focus on public service and delivery . It is with honour and humility , and a sense of trepidation , that I rise to make my maiden speech . I think of those who have spoken here before and the gravity and seriousness of the issues that have been debated and discussed . I hope that this Parliament is no different in how it discharges its duties , and that we in this intake of new Members live up to those standards . I congratulate the many new Members on their maiden speeches , which have set a high bar . Like everyone else in this House , I wish to thank sincerely those who placed their faith and trust in me by electing me . I am indebted to the electorate of South Antrim for the support that I have received from across the entire community — indeed , entire communities — in my election to this place . I also thank the dedicated campaign team who supported me during what was an honourable campaign . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Paul Girvan , not just for his tenure as a Member of this House , but for his time as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and as a local councillor . South Antrim has moved between Paul ’s party and my Ulster Unionist party on a number of occasions . With that , I carry the privilege and honour of returning the UUP to this place after a seven - year absence , and the charge and responsibility of bringing a moderate and reasoned Unionist voice from Northern Ireland , in my party ’s tradition of working positively and constructively with all to achieve the best outcomes for all our people , and of working across this House to strengthen our Union and to deliver a Union for all . I turn now to my constituency of South Antrim . I want those here this evening to know what a fantastic part of our country it is . Like so many constituencies , it has a mix of main towns — Ballyclare and Antrim — and a range of what were once small villages but are growing into large villages , such as Toome , Doagh , Crumlin , Randalstown , Templepatrick , Ballynure and many more . Much of the constituency is a large and productive rural area , while part of the expanding urban area of Glengormley is merging with north Belfast in Mossley and Mallusk . South Antrim is home to industry , research and cutting - edge business in large and small employers . Indeed , I look forward to working with the Chancellor and her Government in further supporting those businesses through the Bills in the King ’s Speech , and especially through the national wealth fund . South Antrim is the base of Belfast international airport , which I believe has a real opportunity if it gets its much - needed rail link and the further expansion of Aldergrove and our Royal Air Force base . That is why I believe that we also need a UK air transportation strategy , which I may raise later in the Adjournment debate — if the hon . Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will take an intervention from me ! South Antrim ’s agricultural sector is another pillar of our community and contributes significantly to our local economy . Our annual Antrim agricultural show celebrates that agricultural heritage by bringing together farmers , producers and visitors from across the country and showcasing the best of rural life and promoting a strong sense of community . It is on this Saturday at Shane ’s castle , and I would encourage and welcome anyone who wants to attend . Loch Neagh — the largest freshwater lake in the British isles — is another jewel in South Antrim ’s crown , but it is currently struggling because of neglect , like many of our waterways . However , the Stormont Executive ’s new recovery programme is in place , and I hope that — with national support , given the need for action on our waterways — Loch Neagh will once more be a tourism and recreational attraction for visitors from far and wide . A number of issues debated over the past few days will have a direct impact on the people of South Antrim , Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom — none more so than the future and support that the Government will offer our national health service and those who rely on and work in it . The Government have the opportunity to reverse the past years of neglect . Health may be devolved , but that does not mean that we in this place can abdicate all responsibility for our national health service . We have the excellent Antrim area hospital in my constituency , but it needs resource and support to develop its potential . As a former Health Minister of Northern Ireland , I know that we have plans to deliver better services , but change needs recurrent resources , which have been lacking in recent years . I look forward to working with this Government to rebuild our national health service . I know that I am speaking to the converted on how great South Antrim is , because I have been overwhelmed by the number of Members from across the House who have approached me to tell me of a relative or friend who lives in my constituency . Indeed , I look forward to representing them and all my South Antrim constituents in this place . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for calling me to make my maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) on a fine speech , and a very impressive description of her constituency and her motivations for coming to this place . It has taken me some time to get elected to the House . I first stood in a general election back in 2001 , so no one can accuse me of being a young man in a rush . I am humbled to finally be here , having done some other things in party politics along the way . I pay tribute to my late mum and dad , who inspired me to get involved in politics . They gave me my Labour values , and I am sorry that they just missed out on the chance to see me get here . I also thank my family for their huge support , including lots of campaigning and lots of patience , as my speech has come rather late in this debate . I thank the electors of North Durham for voting for me to represent them in this House . I promise that I will always fight for their interests , and I could not want to represent a finer constituency . I follow into the House the right hon . Kevan Jones . He is an extremely tough act to follow , and I wish him well both in overcoming his health troubles and in his new role , having been elevated to the other place . Kevan was elected MP for North Durham in 2001 , and served the constituency and this House with distinction for 23 years . He was utterly committed to the defence and security of our country , serving as a Defence Minister , with multiple stints on the Defence Committee . He was the longest - serving member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , a vice - president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , and a commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . That is highly appropriate , given the number of veterans in the North Durham constituency — particularly people associated with the Durham Light Infantry . I am sure that in the other place Kevan will continue to work on defence and other issues , such as the sub - postmasters ’ campaign for justice . His continued work on the Horizon redress advisory board will give reassurance to victims . Kevan will continue to pursue an outcome for sub - postmasters who used the Capture software in the 1990s , which is currently the subject of an independent investigation that was commissioned by the Government earlier this year . Many hon . Members will know that Kevan is a keen photographer , often capturing and sharing the beauty of North Durham . Countless voters and local organisations have told me how much they have been helped by Kevan . He is held in high regard not just across this House but across North Durham . I have been elected in a long line of Labour Members , all , as far as I can discern , from the same moderate tradition in the party that I stand in , and including distinguished Front Benchers such as Giles Radice and Jack Lawson , who served as Attlee ’s Secretary of State for War in the closing days of world war two . The Chester - le - Street part of my constituency has a unique distinction in the history of the Labour party , having returned a Labour Member to the House continuously since 1906 — so no pressure on me to keep winning at all . However , that long Labour history does not mean that North Durham is a safe seat . In every characteristic other than never having been lost , it is a red wall seat and has been electorally competitive in the last two contests . Indeed , this most recent election campaign was rather livelier than I would have preferred . Chester - le - Street is only one part of North Durham under its current boundaries , however , with the other major town being Stanley . The constituency is rural — surprisingly so . Aside from the two main towns , there are numerous villages . I may get into trouble for not listing some of them , but I will try to list the major ones : Sacriston , Tantobie , Tanfield , Beamish , Bournmoor , Lumley , Pelton , Pelton Fell , Craghead , Ouston , Lanchester , Burnhope , Castleside and Annfield Plain are just some of them . I wish to thank the right hon . Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , who previously represented Lanchester , Burnhope and Castleside in the North West Durham constituency in the last Parliament , and who has been most courteous and helpful in handing over responsibility for those fine communities . I urge hon . Members to visit North Durham . As well as fine towns and villages , it has stunning countryside and attractions including Beamish , the world - famous open - air museum that brings the history of north - east England to life , and Durham county cricket club ’s Riverside ground . Kevan always described North Durham as a rural constituency with urban problems , and that remains the case . Mining is at the heart of the history and previous economy of North Durham . Almost every village has a pit wheel memorial ; many also have memorials to terrible mining disasters , and many have lodge banners that are paraded at the Durham gala . The decline of the industry over many decades and its eventual destruction in the 1980s , along with the closure of other major local employers , left terrible economic and social scars and a sense that some communities in the constituency have been left behind . Levelling up , if it reached anywhere , did not reach the proud communities that elected me . That brings me to the local importance of the topic of today ’s debate : economy , welfare and public services . North Durham needs economic stability and growth . It is a travesty that there are so many families dependent on food banks . It needs new skilled and well - paid jobs in the industries of the future . It needs investment and project decisions by the Government to be targeted at creating jobs where they are most needed . North Durham needs a fairer distribution of public spending . Changes to the local government funding formula over the last 14 years have been unfair and removed resources from authorities such as Durham county council that are dealing with the highest levels of deprivation , and hampered their ability to deliver effective local services . That urgently needs to be changed in the next local government funding settlement . Capital spending on public services is also urgently needed . On Friday , I visited Sacriston academy , a primary school , and was horrified to find excellent teachers delivering high - quality education , but in a setting that was literally falling down , with ceilings held up by scaffolding joists and whole classrooms , built in 1910 — indeed , famous former pupils include Bobby Robson — now unusable due to water penetration through the ceilings and walls . Local children deserve so much better . Public transport in the constituency is not fit for purpose . We need more frequent and reliable buses and more trains stopping at Chester - le - Street . We also need the economic regeneration of local town centres . The once thriving Front Streets of Chester - le - Street and Stanley are run down and need new life . I think the House for listening to me today . I look forward to contributing to debates here and to fighting tenaciously for the cause of North Durham and its people and the wider north - east . I congratulate everybody who has made their maiden speech in this debate . It is a big moment in one ’s parliamentary career , but you are out the other side and nothing will be quite as traumatic as what you have experienced today . To go through them very briefly , I thank the hon . Member for Queen ’s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) , who told us that her great - grandfather — I think — came from Lithuania to set up a store in the middle of her constituency , which is her connection with it . The hon . Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) paid a very generous tribute to Mike Freer and the dangers and intimidation that he faced . She was also generous to Mrs Thatcher — she is clearly a very generous lady . The hon . Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) paid tribute to Grant Shapps and his numerous and frequent Cabinet positions , as well as his commitment to Ukraine . The hon . Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) paid tribute to the 190 Labour women MPs who are now in the House , as well as to Harriet Harman . My hon . Friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) managed to weave King John and A. E. Housman into his speech , and informed us that Hollywood is not a city on the west coast of the United States , but is actually within his constituency . If you want to see film stars , ladies and gentlemen , go to Bromsgrove . My hon . Friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) has the peculiarity of having three forebears who are still Members of this House . He was generous to each of them , which shows that he is a wise man and will go far . The hon . Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) stressed the industrial and shipping heritage of his constituency , and how it was indeed bombarded by the Germans in world war one , but it gave as good as it got . My hon . Friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) praised his predecessor , Matt Hancock , of course focusing on racing and horses — although not , I noticed , on horseplay as such . The hon . Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) focused , with great pride , on the Hitachi Rail company in his constituency — shortly , I am afraid to tell him , to be seized by the Labour party and nationalised as part of its Government programme . My hon . Friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Greg Stafford ) stressed defence spending , the hon . Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) leasehold reform and the hon . Member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) the importance of agriculture . I was out of the Chamber for the speech of the hon . Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , and the Whip ’s note simply says , “ He said that there was a cat rubbing his legs ” , or something to that effect . [ Laughter . ] Representing a highly rural constituency as I do , I know that strange things do occur , particularly late on those dull winter evenings . The hon . Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) stressed the importance of children in care . The hon . Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) referred to her constituency as the new “ Haliwood ” , so another Hollywood reference there . I thought my hon . Friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) gave a very witty speech , and stressed the association with the RAF in his commitment to veterans . The hon . Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) paid tribute to David Morris and his support for the Eden project , and I was particularly pleased to see her do that . The hon . Member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) made I think one of the most moving maiden speeches that we have heard in this House for a very long time . He spoke very movingly about his parents , and we all know what pride his dad would have had in the fact that he has been successful in his fourth attempt to join us here in the House of Commons . The hon . Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) referenced the fact that a Roman road — Watling Street — runs through her constituency and spoke passionately about the importance of community and tolerance . Finally , the hon . Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) spoke warmly of Kevan Jones , whom all of us who have been in this House for a while remember with great fondness , and the importance of skilled and well - paid jobs in his constituency . I hope that I have pretty much covered everybody and said the main things that needed saying . Let us now turn to the debate itself , and it seems to me that the right hon . Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , while I congratulate her warmly on being the first female Chancellor — I think that is a huge achievement and is to be very warmly welcomed — is , I am afraid , suffering from some level of amnesia . She appears to have forgotten the legacy that we have bequeathed to her . Inflation , which was up at over 10 % last autumn , is now back to target . Mortgage rates are softening , real wages have been growing in each of the last 11 months and taxes have been coming down more recently under the previous Government . When it comes to debt , we were on target , as we handed over to the right hon . Lady , to see debt falling in line with her own fiscal target at the end of the fifth year , and we of course have the fastest growing economy in the G7 . One wonders where this amnesia is coming from , and it is of course nothing more than smoke and mirrors . It is to cover up the fact that the Chancellor is rolling the pitch to raise taxes . Against all the commitments she made during the general election , she will be raising those taxes in the autumn . It will not be because we have bequeathed her something of which she was not aware in advance . The IFS has made it very clear that the books were “ open ” , as Paul Johnson said , for all to see . When it comes to public services , we have a proud record . On education , we have the best readers in the western world . We have been going up the PISA scales for mathematics and sciences , something that did not happen under the last Labour Government . Crime has been halved , broadly speaking , across the period from 2010 to the present day . When it comes to work and welfare , we have a near - record level of employment , and we have a low level of unemployment . And economic inactivity is lower than in every single year under the last Labour Government . What was Labour ’s record ? When they left office , unemployment was double the level that it is today . Under every single Labour Government in history , unemployment has been higher when they left office than when they came in . Most disgraceful of all is that youth unemployment was up 43 % under the last Labour Government ; under the last Conservative Government it was down by over 40 % . As for welfare , under Labour there were 1.4 million people languishing on long - term benefits for almost a decade . On pensions , we saw the 75p pension increase and the Gordon Brown raid on private pensions of £ 180 billion — from which the pension system never fully recovered . It is , therefore , no surprise that , under Labour , we ended up with the fourth highest level of pensioner poverty across Europe . Under Labour there were 1 million more people in absolute poverty after housing costs . There were 200,000 more pensioners in poverty and 100,000 more children in poverty under the last Labour Government than there are today . We will be a responsible Opposition : we welcome the commitment to growth in the King ’s Speech ; we welcome the commitment to building houses , as long as that is with sufficient local consent ; we welcome the Budget responsibility Bill in principle ; and we welcome the announcements that the Chancellor has made regarding pensions : consolidating pensions and ensuring that we get better returns for pensioners and that we invest in long - term pension capital . But there are too many echoes in this King ’s Speech of the Labour of old . The nationalisation of the railways . The consolidation of GB Energy . The long hand of Government reaching—[Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear ! ” ] Labour Members cheer now but they wo n’t be cheering in a few years ’ time . They have short memories ; I remember when the railways were nationalised and it was not a pretty situation . They are bringing forward French - style employment laws that will lead to less efficient businesses and to tribunals . They will be increasing the freedoms of trade unions , who are their paymasters . And they will be dispensing with minimum service levels ; that will lead to more strikes and the inconvenience of the public , but certainly not greater growth . What have we heard in the King ’s Speech on welfare , one of the biggest challenges of the modern age ? Zip , absolutely nothing , nada , diddly squat — absolutely nothing from the Labour party . They talk about moving the National Careers Service from the Department for Education to the Department for Work and Pensions ; well , I hardly think that will move the dial . Their back to work plan is named exactly as our back to work plan was that my right hon . Friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) the shadow Chancellor and I launched last autumn , but it has nothing standing behind it — not the billions of pounds of support we put in place to encourage people to go into work and to transform lives . All we have heard from those on the Government Benches is a denigration of our job centres ; these are described as places of fear by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , and by the Minister for employment the hon . Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) as places that do not offer real help . What an insult to the tens of thousands of hard - working people up and down our country who go into those offices to help people improve their prospects and improve their lives . They are against what they call punitive sanctions ; it will cost hundreds of millions of pounds to remove those and it will result in less engagement with the help that is available and diminish people ’s life chances . There have been no comments whatsoever from the Government Benches on our work capability assessment reforms , that according to the Office for Budget Responsibility will see 400,000 fewer people on long - term sickness benefits . They opposed in poetry ; they have to govern in prose . They have not even picked up the pen , but let me be clear : we made mistakes in government and we have paid the price at the ballot box , and it is right that my party now faces a period of reflection and does so with humility . The electorate has spoken , and we must listen . But that is not the same as saying that the vision that is Conservatism has died , even if of late it has been too often obscured . That vision still burns bright . It burns bright as a beacon of freedom , enterprise , opportunity and , yes , stability and hope in the face of — Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil O'Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Siân Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Judith Cummins Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley