Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me in this extremely important debate . I congratulate my hon . Friends the Members for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on their touching and moving speeches . I really am proud to be one of the Scottish delegates . In the tradition of maiden speeches , I begin by paying tribute to my immediate predecessor , Deidre Brock , who represented the constituency for nine years — the first woman to do so . I wish her and her team well in their future endeavours . I would also like to pay tribute to Mark Lazarowicz , who represented the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continues to advocate for human rights , asylum seekers and the environment . The newly extended boundary once again includes Muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represented by the hon . Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) . This part of the constituency holds a special place in my heart as it neighbours West Pilton , where I lived and where my stepchildren went to school and attended Greater Pilton childcare centre during the 1990s . It is a groundbreaking facility providing families with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that I hope we can learn from and replicate . When we lived in West Pilton , our flat was riddled with damp . We had to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litres of water daily . Our children ’s health suffered , and painting over black mould was normal . We were lucky : we were eventually able to move . However , the flat is still there , and I would suggest that the issues remain too . Housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofitting homes . Access to safe and secure homes is a fundamental right , and although it is a devolved issue in Scotland , we must learn lessons and work together across Governments to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient homes for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . I also place on record my sincere thanks to Malcolm Chisholm , who helped us at this time . He represented Edinburgh North and Leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he moved to the Scottish Parliament , before standing down in 2016 . He is why I joined the Labour party . His reputation and integrity , his achievements and his passion for the people of Edinburgh North and Leith are rightly still recognised , and indeed he remains an inspiration to me and many others in our community and beyond . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think the record may have to be corrected as I have heard many hon . Members from across the House making an error by declaring that their constituency is the greatest in the country . They are of course mistaken . As many of those who have already visited will know , Edinburgh North and Leith can surely claim that accolade . From our amazing shops on Princes Street , George Street and the new St James Quarter , as well as our fantastic independent stores , we have the best retail across the country . We have world - class restaurants , cafés and bars — from the Johnnie Walker whisky experience , which I was pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . Friend the Deputy Prime Minister , to the Lind & Lime gin distillers , where my right hon . Friend the Prime Minister was welcomed , and the Port of Leith Distillery , the country ’s first vertical distillery . I extend a welcome to all my hon . Friends to visit and join me for a dram . Edinburgh North and Leith is steeped in history from Calton hill to the New Town , another UNESCO world heritage site , and onwards to Stockbridge , the home of Golden Wonder crisps ; Newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and Western Harbour , reclaimed from the sea . We are home to the Royal Yacht Britannia and the Royal Botanic Garden in Inverleith . Leith links has claims to be the birthplace of golf . And although the stadium is just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , Hibs , is Leith to the core . I can confirm that , as the song suggests , there is indeed much “ Sunshine on Leith ” , although not always on match days . Our famous Port of Leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — has seen the comings and goings of ships from all over the world , bringing with them stories , goods and people that have shaped our identity . The historic landmark reminds us of our rich heritage and the importance of preserving it for the future . This is evidenced through our proud industrial and political history , being where Rose ’s lime juice was invented to prevent sailors from getting scurvy , and where Salvesen had a whaling business . In the present day , our port is reinventing itself for the next generation , with the green energy jobs of the future and with businesses such as Vestas and nearby Nova delivering wind and tidal energy . Stitched into our community are so many sites of natural beauty , with the Water of Leith flowing through the heart of our constituency and being hugged by the firth of Forth . With the world ’s largest arts festival on our doorstep , we house the Scottish National Portrait Gallery , Leith theatre , Customs House , North Edinburgh Arts , Edinburgh playhouse and the new Dunard concert centre , which is currently under construction . Alongside our film and music studios , we are home to many authors , artists , musicians and poets . I could go on , and I possibly have for too long already , but this is by no means an exhaustive list , and it does not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . I have yet to mention what makes Edinburgh North and Leith truly great : simply , it is our people . Being elected to this House to represent my home and my community is truly the honour of my life . I would like to thank everyone who trusted me with their vote . For those who did not , I hope that during my time in this place I can evidence that I will champion our home . I understand that there is so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , Edinburgh is a tale of two cities . Too many have been left behind and suffered through decades of neglect . Poverty remains stubbornly high and is a reality for so many children . In our city , food banks have become the norm , where people already struggling to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than them . We have a housing emergency with more than 3,000 homeless people , many of whom are families with small children living in hotel rooms with no kitchen , resorting to cooking meals each day from a kettle . We have the scourge of addiction etched on people ’s faces , clear for all to see . While our public services are underfunded and broken , our communities are resilient . I think of people such as Pauline Bowie , recently honoured for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteers and low - waged carers who work tirelessly each day for our community . Our strength lies in the people of Edinburgh North and Leith , who are known for their warmth , compassion and determination . Changing people ’s lives by offering hope was why this Government were elected , and it is why we must deliver . My journey started , like all of us , before I was born . I was born in Rottenrow maternity hospital in Glasgow . Yes , the House has not misheard me : there was a maternity hospital called Rottenrow . When I was a baby , and before I had a voice , decisions were made that would change and shape my life forever . I was lucky then , as I am now , to have people who loved and nurtured me . Although my mum , dad and gran are no longer living , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that I am in this place , as I left school at 15 with few qualifications and left home not long after . It took me many years to find my place in this world , and I am so grateful for the love of my stepchildren David and Zoe , for Zak and for my wife Melanie , for her love and support every day . To me , they are home . I thank all my friends , party activists , colleagues and loved ones who have supported me in my life and on my journey leading to this place . As a child growing up in the ’ 80s in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seems inevitable that I would end up as a proud product of the Labour and trade union movement . In my working life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to being a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the Children ’s Panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy has always been my passion . I have learned through life that when others give up on you , it is easy to give up on yourself . My promise to everyone in Edinburgh North and Leith is that I will not give up , and I will fight for everyone ’s right to thrive . I will be their voice in this place , and as is Leith ’s motto , I will always persevere .