My constituent and resident of Burgess Hill , able seaman George Chandler , was due to lead the blind veterans at the remembrance parade on Remembrance Sunday the weekend after next . Sadly , George died earlier this month . He was 99 years old . I never had the privilege of meeting George , but I have been able to speak to his son Paul , who gave me a wonderful insight into his father . He was full of character and , in Paul ’s words , an old rogue . George was born to a working - class family off the Old Kent Road . When war was declared , aged 14 George stayed in London — he was not evacuated — and experienced the Blitz in all its horror . His father , Will , had been a soldier at the Somme , and George was determined that he would not be what he called one of the “ poor bloody infantry ” . He was not going to go into the Army . When he was still 17 , he pestered and pestered the recruiters at the naval office to sign him up . Eventually , they took him on , even though he had not yet reached his 18th birthday . George saw active service in the channel as a gunner on a boat , with close combat with the Germans occurring very frequently . On D - day , he provided cover for American troops landing on Omaha beach , watching the slaughter before his eyes . He returned from the D - day landings to Newhaven in East Sussex , and saw rows and rows of empty coffins waiting for the dead . This year , George was one of a handful of remaining veterans who took part in the 80th anniversary commemorations . He went to No . 10 Downing Street , HMS Belfast and the trooping of the colour . This caused George ’s family a certain amount of consternation , for George was not a Conservative . His family were terribly worried about what George might say when he met Government Ministers . They had a plan that if George let rip , they would whisk him away in his wheelchair before any embarrassment could be caused . I am pleased to say to Conservative Members that he met Gillian Keegan , Grant Shapps and the former Prime Minister ’s wife , and no event occurred . I asked Paul what George ’s messages to the House would be , and the answer — what Paul thought his dad would have said — was characteristically robust . He was passionate about remembering his shipmates , those who gave their tomorrow for our today . He stayed in contact throughout his life with the daughter —