It is the honour of my life to be in this Chamber as the Member for Bolsover , a seat made famous by the legend that is Dennis Skinner . From Calow to Pilsley , they tell me stories of him singing to them on the phone , and they remind me of his witty one - liners . He showed the very best of politics : what can be achieved when we send one of our own here to fight for us . I accepted a long time ago that I will not fill his shoes , but when I feel like I do not belong here , I remember that I am following in the footsteps of a “ beast ” , whose legacy is that kids like me can be here against the odds . Dennis famously praised half the Members on the Conservative Benches for not being crooks , and I like to think that he would have included his successor , Mark Fletcher , in that group . Mark saw that kids in Bolsover were 10 % less likely than those in the rest of England and Wales to get higher education qualifications , and he fought to change that . He worked so hard to get us our own sixth form within Bolsover . I am also passionate about smashing down barriers to opportunity , so that is a fight that I am delighted to take up . Mark made the most of his time here . He appreciated the privilege of serving and continues to show that there is more that unites us than divides us . I wish him so very well . In his maiden speech , Dennis spoke about the more than 10,000 working miners he represented . I do not have that pleasure . Born at the start of the strike , I grew up seeing our pits go . I had to stop visiting the canteen that my Dar took me to on the way to race the pigeons , because it closed . My community grieved , and I grew up seeing more kids like me go to prison than to university . In place of industry , mine is a story of the state — stepping in , once again , to pick up the pieces and make sure that every child can reach their potential . I was really lucky to have a Government that prioritised my education , and that gave teachers like Mrs Gregory the opportunity to nurture me , as she did . When my home was dangerous , there were police to keep us safe . When I did not have a home at all , the state stepped in . When I was pregnant at 15 , I had a Government that wrapped their arms around me in the form of Sure Start . Better still , they implemented a long - term strategy that meant that when I visit schools in Bolsover now , fewer children are facing parenthood . That is really cool . I always felt like the exception , but I am seeing more families struggle than ever before . That is why it has been so heartbreaking to see the state ripped back again . A care home in Shirebrook and a day centre in Bolsover face closure . Kids in South Normanton are waiting years for special educational needs support . Some 52 % of children in Carr Vale live in poverty although their parents work hard to earn . It is not just our most vulnerable who are struggling . Professionals in Cresswell are accessing food banks that used not to exist . There is more antisocial behaviour in Whitwell because there are fewer police . Mortgages are up in Barlborough . The amount that people can buy with their money in Tibshelf has gone down . The reason I am here — the reason I leave my family every week to do this — is because I feel so deeply about the difference that politics can make . Things have been better before , and they will be again . That change has begun . I am here to make sure that this powerful state has the most positive impact on lives in Bolsover . This Great British Energy Bill will mean that fewer children in Pleasely have their lights switch off as they are doing their homework . Kids in Holmewood can start the day with full tummies because they will have free breakfast clubs . Children in Glapwell will not have to feel the shame of asking their parents to pay for their school trips , because those parents will have good jobs , and great terms and conditions . Families in Clowne will get access to dentists , and entrepreneurs can succeed in Wessington , with global companies investing in Markham Vale . My daughter can start her own family in Pinxton , making me the world ’s proudest Nana , knowing that this Government will make getting childcare that much easier . For my daughters and my soon - to - be granddaughter , and for your daughters and granddaughters , I stand here proudly as the first woman MP for Bolsover . It is a privilege to be a part of the most diverse Government in our country ’s history , because representation matters . I stand on the shoulders of the women who came before me , and who raised , supported , educated and mentored me . They threw that ladder down and would not take it up until I had grabbed it . They were women like Gloria De Piero , who showed me that we are not all the same , and who proved to me that we can carry the scars of poverty and still belong in this House ; Bess of Hardwick , who never took no for an answer , built the best of Tudor England and put her initials on the top of her house for us all to see ; Margaret Cavendish , who was not mad but a difficult woman ahead of her time ; and Arkwright ’s Norma Dolby , who kept her community together during the strike , faced police intimidation and made sure the miners ’ families were fed . Being the first woman to stand in this post is a huge privilege , but it comes with a greater responsibility . It is my duty to speak up for the women in my constituency whose stories are not being told , even when it is difficult to do so , and even when I wish they were stories that they did not have — like those women who have been raped and are having to wait years for trial ; attempting suicide as they fear that nobody will believe them . I have a moral obligation to speak on behalf of the women who have been hurt in the worst possible way and then told that it is their own fault . So , to the women in my constituency , who I represent , who will be raped today , raped tomorrow and raped every day of this Parliament , I say : “ I do not know where you are , I can not find you , but you can find me . I will believe you , I will support you , and I will fight to make sure that we can all tell our truth , backed by a Government who will make it easier for us to get justice , determined to make sure that our daughters grow up safer . ” Being able to speak your truth until you can — that is privilege . So , to the people of Bolsover , I say that I am thrilled to be here , for my family and for yours . I will not let you down . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your kind invitation to present my first speech . May I first congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) on her deeply moving and powerful speech this afternoon , alongside the many Members who have spoken for the first time in this House in recent days and weeks ? If the high bar set by the newest Members of this House is indicative of the quality of debate to follow in the coming Parliament , I am very confident about the future of our nation . In my own first speech , I will lay out why I stood to represent my home of Erewash , my plans for my time in Parliament and why I love the area it is now my honour to represent . By the way , before I start in earnest , for the information of all Members present , the constituency is pronounced “ Eh - ruh - wash ” or occasionally “ Eh - ree - wash ” , but never under any circumstances “ Ear - wash ” . I look forward to seeing how that is recorded in Hansard . I begin my speech by thanking my predecessor , Maggie Throup , for her efforts in serving the people of Erewash over the past nine years . Maggie worked diligently for our community , consistently lobbying for funding to support our towns and villages . Given her background in the health sector , Maggie regularly contributed to health policy throughout her tenure , and she served the nation admirably through the latter stages of covid-19 as Vaccines Minister . While Maggie and I rarely saw eye to eye on policy , our relationship across the political divide has always been courteous and collegiate , and I wish her the very best for the future . I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague Liz Blackman , who served Erewash as our Member of Parliament throughout the last Labour Government . Liz ’s guidance during my campaign to become the MP for Erewash was invaluable , and I am sure I will continue to seek her advice throughout my tenure . In my first months in Parliament , as I have met colleagues from across the country , the question I have most frequently been asked is : “ What even is an Erewash , anyway ? ” Named for the river and the canal , we comprise two towns — Ilkeston and Long Eaton — the five villages of Breaston , Draycott , Risley , Sandiacre and Stanton - by - Dale , and other communities in Sawley , Kirk Hallam and Cotmanhay . More often , though , I find it easiest to answer , with a reference to our geography , simply , “ We ’re junction 25 of the M1 . ” Like many towns that operate as a binary star , Ilkeston and Long Eaton exist in a delicate balance , with residents of Ilkeston — or “ Ilson ” , as we call it — regularly declaring , “ Long Eaton gets everything . ” It is probably no surprise then , Madam Deputy Speaker , that if you spent 10 minutes talking to someone in Long Eaton , you would similarly and resoundingly hear the mantra , “ Ilkeston gets everything . ” I should note that I have sanitised these statements somewhat ; references to the other town in my constituency are often a little more colourful . In truth , both of our towns have been hard done by in the past 14 years . Despite the hard work of incredible and passionate teaching and support staff , for example , many of our schools struggle with underfunding — something I witnessed at first hand when I trained as a secondary physics teacher . Both high streets have declined , and while towns funding is helping to support Long Eaton ’s regeneration , the underlying problems remain : antisocial behaviour , crime , shopkeepers forced out by online giants , and a general malaise and the feeling that nothing will fix the foundations . Despite the difficulties we face , I would like to explain why Erewash is a fantastic place by paying tribute to the people and the groups in our towns who are doing everything they can to lift the area up by its bootstraps — people like Joe Cahill , who , by liaising with shopkeepers and landlords through a local Facebook group focused on incredible independent shops , has empowered our community and begun restoring Ilkeston as a thriving market town . Similarly , I commend the work of Paul Opiah and others in building the new Friends of Ilkeston Town Centre , providing grassroots regeneration to our town . The efforts of Joe and Paul have been fantastic and I want to provide them with more support . Joe recently noted that he had done as much as he could without changing the law to bring the remaining , rotting shop units back into service — units that are currently held hostage by absentee landlords . I am therefore excited about the Government ’s proposals to revive our town centres , and I will do everything in my power to support local people in their efforts . In Long Eaton , I pay tribute to Scott Clayton and his team , who have created a beautiful new community focused on supporting mental health through the joy of song , where men of all abilities can come together to sing and discuss their issues . It was a pleasure during my campaign to become a Member of Parliament to join Scott and the Bluetonic community and to dive head first out of my comfort zone to sing with new friends . I also pay tribute to Chris and Jackie Brookes , along with the team at Long Eaton rugby football club . The club serves Long Eaton so well , providing access to sport in our local park for children and adults , and supporting local charities and the armed forces community . After growing substantially over the past decade in the men ’s game , in the women ’s game and now with its new minis side , Long Eaton RFC has become a pillar of our community . Then there is Lindsay Rice and her team , who have built a food bank and a lunch club , and are on their way to creating a brand - new Ilkeston carnival through their Every One Eats institute , alongside the collective churches in Long Eaton that have similarly supported those in our community struggling through poverty . Lindsay recently asked me , “ Adam , as a food bank , when are you going to shut us down ? ” I responded , “ As soon as possible , Lindsay , as soon as possible . ” Erewash has a thriving veteran community , and as a member of the Royal British Legion , I am very proud that our current mayor , Councillor Kate Fennelly , is a Royal Air Force veteran . I recently met the local charitable trust , Forces Veterans Afloat , which does incredible work housing veterans for whom bricks and mortar are not the answer on narrowboats . As a cadet warrant officer in 1344 ( Cardiff ) Squadron ATC for much of my childhood , I have long supported our forces and veterans ; without 1344 and the citizenship , leadership and community spirit instilled in me by the wider cadet movement , I would not be standing here as a Member of Parliament . Erewash is the birthplace of many national stars , from Douglas Houghton , Baron Houghton of Sowerby , who served our country in the first world war and in Harold Wilson ’s Government as the last British Cabinet Minister born in the 19th century , through to Robert Lindsay , who has played countless parts , including the infamous Wolfie in “ Citizen Smith ” and the former Prime Minister , Tony Blair . We also have Bru - C , who today is putting Long Eaton on the map in the grime scene . Our towns , villages , and people are fantastic , but they have been let down by the previous Government , by politicians and by their country . So what do I bring to this place , and what do I hope to do for Erewash ? My background is in academia and education . In my previous day job , I taught engineering apprentices at the University of Nottingham . I worked there for a decade , specialising in metrology research and training the next generation of world - leading manufacturers . I believe I am the first metrologist elected to this place , metrology being the science of measurement and definitely not meteorology — as I said in the opening quote to my PhD thesis , it has nothing to do with clouds . Erewash , and the wider east midlands , has long been the engine of our nation ’s manufacturing base , producing everything from drain covers — look down on nearly every street in the country to see the logo of the famous Stanton Iron Works — to the fine lace worn by the Princess of Wales on her wedding day , produced by Cluny Lace in Ilkeston , to tunnels for HS2 made by Sateba UK , and composite motorsport and aerospace components from Atlas Composite . I want to see an expansion of our manufacturing base through an industrial strategy and reform of the apprenticeship levy , so that we can cement Erewash ’s position as a centre for advanced manufacturing . We also need new infrastructure to build the new homes to support our local economic growth , which I am glad to see the Government commit to . As the Stanton industrial regeneration site grows , I will fight every day for infrastructure works . We need a new junction on the M1 to support the growing industry in the area and to reduce the impact on residents in Sandiacre and Ilkeston , who currently endure a huge volume of heavy goods vehicles passing through the towns . I am proud today to support the Great British Energy Bill . For years , my constituents in Erewash have suffered through rising bills , because of our exposure to dictator - controlled fossil fuel markets . Now that Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station , just outside my constituency , has burned its final lump of coal , I look forward to the investment in our community that GB Energy will bring and the rewards that will reap in energy security , clean power and new jobs . It is the most incredible honour for me to represent my home of Erewash . I would not be here without my partner , my family , my friends and my incredible campaign team , who , by constant repetition of our mantra of being five points behind under any circumstances , began the process of changing our country for the better . Coming from a background of education and science , I look forward to contributing to evidence - based policy debates and applying my scientific training in this House . Standing here , I feel the weight of my community , the weight of responsibility , and the weight of the need to deliver a better future for my constituents and the whole country . Throughout my tenure , I will always be guided by reason not dogma , by the scientific method and by a desire to serve .