It was a great pleasure to serve on the Public Bill Committee on this Bill . We had a great debate , and there was actually a lot of agreement across the Committee Room . These are deeply Conservative reforms , championed by none other than Mrs Thatcher , starting in 1965 , which she continued to do throughout opposition and during her premiership . I gently say to Opposition Members , of whatever party , that they must not fall into the trap of making this a political football . They must engage with the seriousness and complexity of these reforms , in part because , as we have heard , they did very little to advance these very significant reforms during their own time in office . I suspect that they backed away from it because of the very significant legal challenges they would have faced , as we ourselves will no doubt face . Pretending they do not exist is not a serious position . I say to the Minister and the Secretary of State , who are aware of my comments , that we must not buckle , but must continue to take this forward . It is great to see the package of amendments laid by the Government , particularly new clause 42 , which is a ban on leasehold houses . I want the Minister to think carefully about how he will address the inevitable imbalance in the creation of a two - tier system , in which some people will have the freehold of their house , but some will not . There is an additional imbalance between flats in our urban areas and new freehold houses . That point was very well made by James Vitali in a Policy Exchange report . I am slightly worried about the omission from this of retirement properties , so perhaps the Minister could return to that . In Committee , I spoke about the need to truly move towards a commonhold system . I think the Opposition ’s new clause 11 is something of that nature . I very much hope that , as the Bill goes through completing its stages , the Government — here or in the other place — can look at that suggestion . I think we do need to set out the future legislative scaffolding for our fifth term in office , and to build on the work we have done so that we can finally get rid of this leasehold system . Other Members have mentioned a lot of the points I would have made about shared services . My hon . Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) raised that , and it is one of my concerns . My hon . Friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil O’Brien ) has done a fantastic job in talking about the lack of adoption by local authorities . There is also new clause 7 , which I know is again an Opposition amendment , and new clauses 1 and 2 . This problem is not going to go away . It is a blight on many homeowners in Redditch , and it also goes to the heart of our planning system . We really do need to look at that ; we can not pretend that it is going to solve itself . I thank the Minister for writing to me about one of my concerns , which is litigation costs . I think new clause 3 looks at that . He has reassured me that what is in this Bill will go the distance in ensuring that leaseholders are not subject to unjust litigation costs by their landlord . That is one of the cases highlighted by Liam Spender and many others . These are hugely complex issues , but we must tackle them . I want to see ground rents reduced to a peppercorn . It is pure extortion , and a feudal relic from medieval times when people were serfs and worked the land . We should not have this in 2024 , or in any year . I refuse to believe that there is not a way , through the wit of man and the considerable intelligence of Ministers on the Front Bench , to solve the issue , perhaps where some financial assets are held in pension funds . I do not buy the pretence of that incredible con artist Mr Steve Whybrow and his outfit that somehow we are robbing pensioners . I would urge anybody with an interest in this debate to look at the genuine pensioners who are fighting for the right to have pure enjoyment of their own properties , which they richly deserve after a lifetime of working . I will make my final remarks on forfeiture : it must go . The forfeiture of a long lease can not be right . It can not be right that a freeholder can hold this nuclear bomb over somebody such as Dennis Jackson , a pensioner , of Plantation Wharf . He disputed a £ 6,000 service charge , which led to an £ 80,000 legal bill , and he had his £ 800,000 flat forfeited during a 10 - minute hearing at Wandsworth court . I thank LEASE for all the work it has done to help him . That just simply can not be right , and we must address it . I want to see us finally finishing the job that Mrs Thatcher started when she was Opposition Housing spokesman in 1965 . We must finish that job , and I thank the Minister for all the work he has done so far . I feel for the Minister today , because he must be kicking himself . This is probably one of the few debates I have heard in this place recently where I have not heard a bad idea . As constituency MPs , we see time and again the problems caused by retaining this feudal system of leasehold , and I suspect that the Minister , who has been looking at this issue for some time , is kicking himself because what he would really like to do is abolish the whole thing . Indeed , today we have heard support from across the House to do just that . In the short time available , let me say again to him that he would have our support to move to commonhold . He talked about how commonhold was probably the better model , and for those of us living in the vortex of gentrification , where thousands of flats have been built in our community , this is an incredibly pressing issue . We know that the casework we have seen over the past few years will expand as a result of leasehold continuing . That is why I wish to see the Government change their mind , perhaps in the other place , about getting rid of leasehold altogether , and why I have been pressing my local authority to listen to concerns of local residents who are stuck with leasehold , and change our local plan to make commonhold the default . I hope that they have heard this debate and will rethink their opposition to that . I support the amendments in the name of my hon . Friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , and wish to draw the Minister ’s attention to two new clauses that I have tabled on issues with the existing system and the problems that leaseholders face . With 12,000 leaseholders in Walthamstow , I know that these issues will come up time and again . New clause 2 is about the fact that although we have leasehold legislation , it does not tally with our consumer legislation . Leaseholders pay a service charge . They have a contract with freehold management companies to oversee problems in their properties , but few residents feel empowered to access rights that exist under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to have a reasonable service within a reasonable timeframe for repairs . Today , colleagues across the House have given countless examples of that , so let me add my own , which is where my proposed new clause has come from . I am sorry that my hon . Friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) is not here . She talks about Leigh Court and new clause 67 , but residents in Essex Brewery in Walthamstow have been without hot water and heating since before Christmas . Indeed , they are still without hot water and heating , with little sight of any change . Essex Brewery was built just five years ago . It has become apparent that the build by Crest Nicholson was poor at best , and a downright con at worst . Until January this year , Crest Nicholson was on the management committee and made more than £ 100 million in profit in the year that Essex Brewery was built . It has made half that this year — possibly less — because of widespread concerns about the condition of the builds it has made . What does someone do when they have bought possibly their first home , whether through shared ownership or leasehold , as hundreds did in that development , and they find that the pipes that bring in the hot water are faulty ? I am sorry to say that those resident have little redress , because the management company , Kinleigh Folkard and Hayward — another multimillion pound organisation — left them without any explanation of why it would not repair the hot water until after Christmas . What a Christmas present that was . The Grinch had strong competition . That was another layer of bureaucracy . KFH was appointed by the Essex Brewery management company , which was established by the freeholder , Helpfavour , to meet those obligations . KFH told the residents that because their insurance policy said that as long as they had water at all , the property was habitable and it was not going to do anything about it . That has left hundreds of residents , many of them vulnerable , for months on end without any hot water or heating in the current weather . Residents have had to boil kettles to get hot water to cleanse their babies , or pay bills that they can not afford for extra heating through portable heaters . For those who have shared ownership it is even more complicated . Metropolitan Thames Valley states that it owns 24 of those properties and that it is prohibited by law from fixing the problem . New clause 2 is about matching consumer legislation with leasehold legislation , and giving residents the right of redress , not saying , “ You ’ve either got to buy out the leaseholders if you want some property control , or you are stuck with them and waiting to see . ” I hope KFH hears this debate and is ashamed of its behaviour . Amendment 1 is about leasehold tribunals . I know the Minister spoke of precedent setting , but residents across the country would tell him otherwise . I beg him to look at the Warner properties in Walthamstow , and at Y&Y management , which repeatedly rips off constituents across the country . The hon . Member for Harborough ( Neil O'Brien ) is not here , but he asked why people have to pay terrorism insurance . In Walthamstow that was the Warner estate company , which said that because the plane bomber lived in our constituency , 3,000 households had to buy terrorism insurance . Such cases come up time and again with leasehold and they do not get fixed in the tribunal . Amendment 1 would give precedent . Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James Davies Mims Davies Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M. Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil O'Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul Scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles Watling Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher