I think the hon . Gentleman has just talked himself into a job . He is absolutely right that the best people to advocate for stopping smoking are former smokers . We will still encourage adult smokers to switch to vaping through Swap to Stop in England , and I am delighted that localities have asked for over half a million starter kits so far . On advertising regulations , of course the consultation will take place after Royal Assent , but I hope that I can assure the hon . Member for Harrow East that we will take away his point about ensuring that the NHS can still advertise Swap to Stop under those regulations . On a tobacco industry levy , fiscal matters are for the Treasury , but I am sure that his views and those of others have been communicated to Treasury Ministers . The hon . Member for Lewes mentioned the rise of the black market . This is a line that has been parroted by the tobacco industry for years , so we need to spell out the facts . Whenever Governments of any guise have introduced targeted tobacco control measures , the black market actually has not prospered . Consumption of illegal tobacco has gone from 15 billion cigarettes nearly 25 years ago to just one 10th of that amount last year , and when the last Labour Government raised the age of sale from 16 to 18 , the number of illicit cigarettes fell by a quarter . However , this requires better enforcement , and we will use every second of the generously long buffer period to support businesses in preparing for and implementing the changes , including through information campaigns . We are providing £ 10 million to trading standards to increase their capacity and capabilities next year , and there is £ 100 million for Border Force and His Majesty ’s Revenue and Customs over the next five years to tackle illicit and under - age sales . The Bill also allows trading standards to issue on - the - spot fines of £ 200 , and to reinvest the proceeds of those fines , and indeed the licensing regime , back into further enforcement .