I am a DSIT Minister today , but the debate felt remarkably like the creative industries debate a couple of weeks ago , when I was responding as the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . I will get on to some of the points about AI and copyright later , so if anybody wants to intervene on me they can wait for that bit . I will start with some of the points hon . Members have made . The measure on the NHS and data is among the most positive in the Bill , and was welcomed by everybody today . It was not in the previous version of the Bill ; it is one of our additions . The other day , a colleague was telling me about her local hospital , and I was struck by the fact that it employs 42 people simply to carry around physical medical records . We have put our backs into changing that . That is not a good way to preserve records , or to ensure they are secure and not getting lost , let alone anything else . My hon . Friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) was absolutely right when he talked about patient passports . We need to turn the issue on its head , so that people have access to their data and can participate in and make better decisions about their own healthcare . As I said to my hon . Friend yesterday , that is similar to the change that happened a few years ago . After an appointment , consultants used to write to GP about the patient in doctor gobbledegook , but now many of them write to the patient in plain English , copying in the GP . That is the kind of change we need to see . I am very hopeful about the changes that will be introduced by the Bill . As my hon . Friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) said , they will make dramatic difference . We need to ensure the interoperability of all the IT systems used across the whole of the NHS . I would like to extend that beyond England and Wales ; I would not mind if we could manage to do the same for Scotland and Northern Ireland , but I fear that even my friend the hon . Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who likes me sometimes , would baulk a little at a United Kingdom - wide approach to such matters . I am also excited about the elements of the Bill on smart data , which have barely had a look - in in today ’s debate but which could be transformative in many sectors . Many of us will know that when we use our banking app , we are enabled to go not just to our bank but to our insurance , including our car insurance , and all those things can be related to one another in a secure way . That is because of the smart data system that has been in existence for the last few years . We need to roll that out in many other sectors , and that is precisely what the Bill allows . For instance , in the gig economy , it will mean that Uber drivers and those delivering for Deliveroo will have a better understanding of whether they are actually earning a living from each delivery . Thirdly , nobody has referred to the reform of the Information Commissioner ’s Office . It is an important part of the Bill . There have been brief mentions of the register of births and deaths , which basically brings the modern world to the register office . As a former vicar , I suppose I am more interested in that than most , as I have hatched and dispatched quite a few in my time . That was the original point that I was trying to make , and I obviously did not make it as well as the hon . Member did , so I congratulate him on that . The hon . Member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) was a bit critical of article 70 , but I think that he is being a bit unfair . The requirements in subsections 8 and 9 , and then later in 11 and 12 of the article are very clear about the circumstances — and they are the only circumstances — in which the Secretary of State can bring forward changes of the kind to which he referred . I hope that we will be able to please him , if not appease him , if that matter appears in Committee or on Report . I just want to finish with some comments on AI and IP , not least because there has been so much focus on this area . All of us on the Front Bench wanted to have a data Bill , because we think that it is really important for our economy and for so many different aspects of the way that we deliver Government services . We also want a debate about AI and copyright , which is why we launched the consultation , but it feels odd to be doing a bit of that in this Bill . Let me turn now to what the shadow Secretary of State said earlier . I asked ChatGPT what the view of the shadow Secretary of State was on AI and copyright . It replied , “ Regarding his views on copyright , there is no publicly available information indicating that he has expressed specific opinions on this matter . ” Well , yes , we heard that this afternoon , did n’t we ? I hope the Opposition manage to find some ideas at some point . This is a very serious matter and it is one of the trickiest issues that any country has to face at this point . I think that it is trickier for our country than most others , because we are the third largest AI economy in the world , and we are probably the second or , at worst , the third greatest IP country in the world . We have creators in every single sphere . Some countries specialise in one particular form of the creative industries , but we manage to do all of them . That is why I was listening very attentively to the contributions from my hon . Friends the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , and the hon . Member for Perth and Kinross - shire and many others as well . I just want to focus on the things on which there is some agreement . I think there is agreement across the House on the idea that transparency is an important part of what we need to ensure in this legislation , and on the aim of control over intellectual property rights , and on possibly ending a stronger version of rights reservation for the creative industries . I can announce that we have set up two working groups in the past week , both of which have people from the creative industries and from the AI companies in them . One is specifically looking at transparency and what that looks like to be effective and proportionate , and it will start work on that next week . Secondly , on the question of rights reservation , I fully understand that people are sceptical about whether there is a simple technical means of everybody being about to assert their rights —