I associate myself with those comments , Mr Deputy Speaker , and echo the Minister ’s comments about the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill . I am pleased to be here tonight to see the final passage of the Media Bill . It has been 20 years since the last broadcasting laws were introduced , and in that time the media landscape has changed dramatically . This Bill ensures that our broadcasting sector can continue to thrive with regulation fit for the modern era . The measures in the Bill have been through several layers of scrutiny , from the White Paper to the pre - legislative inquiry conducted by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I thank the Committee for its work , and I will take this opportunity to say some other thank yous . I thank the range of stakeholders , including those throughout our broadcasting sectors , who engaged so extensively with the content of the Bill . I thank the noble Lords , including of course our Labour Lords team , the civil servants and officials , and the ministerial team . I also thank my office , particularly Anna Clingan . While Labour would have added some further measures to future - proof and strengthen the Bill , I am pleased to welcome its passage this evening . Further to that , I am happy to support the amendments from the other place , which I believe will strengthen the position and purpose of our public service broadcasters . First , it is right that the fundamental Reithian principles of public service broadcasting are reinstated , and it is important that educational programming for children and young people has an explicit basis in the Bill . Labour has spoken in detail at every stage of the Bill about the importance of children ’s access to public service content , including educational content . As we enter a general election , our media — be they our public service broadcasters , our commercial radio and television stations or our local media outlets , including my local paper , the Barnsley Chronicle — will play an incredibly important role in holding accountable all of us who stand for public office . Our media and broadcasting sector will , and always does , play a fundamental role in our society and democracy . I am pleased that this legislation , which will secure their future , will enter into statute . As we enter the election period , I send colleagues from across the House my very best wishes , including , of course , my hon . Friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) . I especially mention those who are retiring , including the Deputy Speakers : my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) , and the right hon . Member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) .