Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allowing me to make my maiden speech . When I drive around my Congleton constituency , I thank my lucky stars that I have the privilege of both living in and representing somewhere so very beautiful . It is made up of gorgeous rolling countryside , farmland , hedgerows and oak trees . The farmers work all hours to produce the food that we need . It has views of the giant radio telescope at Jodrell Bank and the natural beauty spot Bosley Cloud . It is Arcadia within commuting distance of Manchester , Crewe and Stoke , and I can not tell the House how much I truly love it . The constituency is a growing place , with around 5,000 extra houses in the last few years . The population is divided between the Cheshire market towns of Alsager , Sandbach and Congleton , alongside the larger village of Holmes Chapel , and many beautiful smaller villages , such as Rode Heath , Church Lawton and Goostrey . There can be few more idyllic spots in the country than sitting outside the Swettenham Arms next to the Lovell arboretum , overlooking St Peter ’s , the archetypal village church . Though each town and village has its own unique character and history , the joys and challenges experienced by the families who live there are often remarkably similar . They include families whose children have special educational needs and disabilities , who often face extensive challenges getting the diagnoses and support that they need . Those families need our help , and I will do everything that I can to assist them . I have been pleased to hear the Prime Minister referring repeatedly in this Chamber to those difficulties , and I am confident that he will help us too . Families will also benefit from Labour ’s review of shared parental leave . Some 54,000 women a year lose their job when they are pregnant or on maternity leave . Women actually out - earn men in their 20s . The gender pay gap is in many respects actually a motherhood penalty . Men taking longer periods of paternity leave is a way that we could normalise parental leave and potentially reduce those problems . I thank the Government for starting the consultation on this matter imminently . I pay tribute to campaign groups such as Pregnant then Screwed , Rights of Women , the Dad Shift , Parenting Out Loud , and the TUC and trade unions , which are all doing incredible things in this field . Many homeowners in my constituency have been affected by leasehold and fleecehold problems , and will welcome our planned reforms on these issues , to which I intend to contribute . They include older people , often the backbone of our communities , who provide childcare for grandchildren , and often volunteer as well . Sometimes , however , they do so in avoidable pain while on NHS waiting lists that are too long . Those are just a few of the issues that I intend to apply myself to as MP for Congleton . Let me take the House back to Congleton ’s history . Congleton is known as Beartown , owing to a local story that in the 1600s the town saved up to buy a new Bible . Shortly before the summer fête , the village bear died , so the townsfolk agreed that rather than buy their Bible they would postpone the purchase and get a new bear with the money instead . Congleton is very entrepreneurial across the whole constituency , and many of our small businesses feature references to the bear . It is also in our local iconography everywhere . We have the Beartown Tap and Beartown beer . The bear features pretty much everywhere , as does our fantastic statue of Elizabeth Wolstenholme - Elmy , which was lobbied and fundraised for by local feminists . Elizabeth , who based herself in Congleton from 1874 until her death in 1918 , played a significant role in the women ’s suffrage movement , founding the Women ’s Social and Political Union and campaigning for women ’s education and voting rights . I hope that I shall think of her often in this place . Another of our most famous local figures , although quite different , is Harry Styles , whose hometown of Holmes Chapel is now a point of pilgrimage for his fans . I am sure that everyone is sorry to hear today of the death of his former bandmate Liam Payne — we all extend our condolences to his friends and family . Local people have set up a walking trail associated with Harry Styles . If anyone fancies it , I would strongly recommend following it , with a stop in any of our local independent businesses on Holmes Chapel high street . I would probably include a drink at the George and Dragon or the Bottle Bank , or both . I know that both publicans do a lot of voluntary work within our community . People volunteering is common in my constituency , as I know it is in the constituencies of many other Members . Whether they are coaching football at Vale Juniors or any of the other community sports clubs — there are too many for me to list — planting trees and conserving and maintaining our woodland and footpaths , as the Sandbach Woodland and Wildlife Group does , and as a similar group does in Congleton ; helping young people through uniformed groups such as scouts , guides and the various air cadets , some of which I have visited ; running schemes to support men ’s mental health , such as the Goostrey Community Shed , Holmes Chapel Men in Sheds , or the new Sandbach men walking and talking group ; or even running a community energy power plant in Congleton Hydro , we have the most amazing set of citizens . I am so grateful for the fantastic contribution that they make to help others , support those who need it , and truly make my constituency the fantastic place that it is . On the topic of contribution , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Fiona Bruce . Congleton has had three MPs in its history , all of them women : Ann Winterton , Fiona Bruce and now me . I know that many Christians in the constituency and beyond appreciated Fiona Bruce ’s advocacy on behalf of the religious community , both in the UK and internationally , in her role as envoy for religious freedom . We have many active local church groups in our community , and they contribute a great deal of very varied support . Churches and secular volunteers and organisations , including food banks , food pantries and the Old Saw Mill , are all quietly providing much - needed food support within the community . They do this for a far larger number of adults and children than the apparent affluence of the area would superficially lead one to expect . As a discrimination lawyer , and someone who went into politics because of the value that I place on equality and inclusion , I will continue to advocate for the rights and freedoms of all my constituents , and celebrate the diversity within our community . I recently attended the One World festival in Alsager , which was first established by Margaret Keeling 30 years ago . It celebrates the diversity of nationalities living within the Alsager community , with food , activities and lots of performances from local schoolchildren . It really is a delight — thank you , Margaret . Another of the many achievements of the fantastic volunteers in my constituency is that we have regular Pride events . Congleton held its first Pride about five years ago . I pay tribute to Richard Walton , Ronan Clayton and all those who were involved in setting it up . It is now ably chaired by Malcolm Pope , who is taking it from strength to strength . The excellent curator Anna Maluk put on a Pride exhibition in Congleton Museum , hosting photos from those early events and featuring art from the local LGBTQIA+ community . Since then , more Pride events have grown in Sandbach , Alsager and , for the first time this summer , Holmes Chapel . At one of these events , it was suggested to me that these are really just a family fun day — a village fête , if you will . It is true that the events are fun , fabulous and family - friendly , but beyond the live music and bright clothing remains a serious message . The hard - working volunteers who make these Pride events happen do so in the face of repeated homophobic hate crimes . Similarly , there is still a backdrop of fear attendant in many women ’s daily lives . Women in my constituency have written or spoken to me about their experiences of sexual violence . I say to the young women who have talked to me — you know who you are — that I will fight for you , and all young people , in this place every day . That will include ensuring that , when embracing new technology and innovation , as we have done this week at the international investment summit , we find ways of protecting people from new threats — whether that be people looking at tractors on their smartphones in this workplace , or artificial intelligence baking in discriminatory decision making . Unfortunately , new technologies also bring the potential for harassment , discrimination and abuse , and we must not be caught off guard — we must get on the front foot on that . My constituency has a long history of developing new technologies . The constituency boundary bisects the site of Jodrell Bank , the amazing radio telescope . Sandbach was the proud home of ERF and Foden trucks . The first Foden traction engine was built in Sandbach in 1881 , and that was followed by the production of heavy goods vehicles for 150 years . The history and heritage of Foden still runs through the blood of the town , with the annual transport festival and its incredible parade of vintage trucks , wagons , classic cars and even the odd plane on the common . My constituency is also home to one of the world ’s leading brass bands , Foden ’s Band , which was born out of the works in 1902 and has twice won , and twice been runner - up , in the national brass band championships of Great Britain . I will work across this House to stand up for the incredible , entrepreneurial and community - minded people and businesses of the beautiful place that is the Congleton constituency . Lastly , I want to say some thank yous . I thank the volunteers who helped me to get here and continue to support me , to whom I am very grateful . That includes those from the Labour party , and I make special mention of the Fabian Women ’s Network mentoring scheme . I thank my adored family , who are in the Public Gallery today . When I am in Westminster , I miss you so much . I hope I do all of you proud . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start by congratulating my hon . Friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) on his powerful maiden speech . I am not sure that when he and I attended a Birmingham University Labour Students meeting back in 2009 , either of us anticipated that we would be making our maiden speeches in the same debate . I want to start by saying what an honour it is to stand here as the Member of Parliament for Banbury . As a Banbury lad who has never sought to represent anywhere else , I want to repeat what I told residents on the doorstep during the campaign : this is the job I have always wanted . To everyone who helped make that happen , I can only say thank you . I also want those residents to know that now I have this job , I promise that I will work hard every day to deliver for them , whether they voted for me or not . What makes this an even prouder moment for me is that I stand here as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Banbury constituency . Until 5 July , the constituency had remained in the hands of one party for 102 years . But change is something that Banbury — the largest town in Oxfordshire — has got used to over recent years . For those who do not know , the Banbury constituency is at the furthest point north in the south - east region , encompassing not just the town of Banbury but the towns of Chipping Norton and Charlbury , as well as countless villages and rolling countryside . Banbury is a beautiful part of the world to live in and represent . It is most famous for our nursery rhyme , known across the English - speaking world : “ Ride a cock - horse to Banbury Cross , To see a fine lady upon a white horse ; With rings on her fingers and bells on her toes , She shall have music wherever she goes . ” Banbury ’s history is more than that , though ; indeed , it is more than just the town itself . The constituency reflects our country ’s history , including in its foundations and its landscape . We have the neolithic and bronze age Rollright stones ; the settlement on the edge of Chipping Norton left to us by the Romans ; the Norman castle mound at Deddington ; and Broughton castle which , as well being a stunning late - medieval stately home , is likely to be recognisable to many Members as the setting for TV ’s “ Wolf Hall ” , and the films “ Shakespeare in Love ” and “ Three Men and a Little Lady ” . I was once told that one of the only request to film there that the owners declined was when the studio wanted to paint it pink , which was probably wise . In the village of Wroxton , where I went to school , we have the former home of Lord North . He is also buried in Wroxton , giving us something that not all constituencies have : the resting place of a former Prime Minister . Bliss Mill , Tooley ’s boatyard and the Oxford canal are all remnants of the area ’s growth during the industrial revolution . But the most colourful time in our history is undoubtedly the civil war , when Banbury itself was on the side of the roundheads , despite its castle — right in the middle of the town — being on the side of the cavaliers . The people of Banbury were so unmistakeably puritan that a poem was written about it : “ To Banbury came I , O profane one ! Where I saw a Puritane - one , Hanging of his cat on Monday , For killing of a mouse on Sunday . ” More happily , “ the Puritans ” is the nickname for the only supporter - owned football club in Oxfordshire , Banbury United . I mention all this not just because I am really proud of where I call home and its role in our past , but because I want the House to understand what the Banbury constituency is all about . Although it did not change hands politically between 1922 and 2024 , change did come to Banbury in a big way . Old industries such as making cloth in Chipping Norton or aluminium in Banbury went , while new ones such as logistics with companies such as DHL and TWE Haulage , food processing with Fine Lady Bakeries and Go Fresh , and high - end mechanical engineering with the Haas Formula 1 team and Prodrive came in instead . Other industries , such as brewing , moved within the constituency . We can no longer get a pint in a Hunt Edmunds pub , but Hooky beer from Hook Norton is on sale across the United Kingdom . The building of the M40 in many ways permanently changed Banbury from a small , semi - industrial market town into something completely different . Thousands of new homes have gone up as our area has become increasingly attractive for commuters to Oxford and London , but we still have a council waiting list that has quadrupled in a decade and a private sector that can not meet the need . Meanwhile , vital infrastructure such as schools , roads and health services have failed to meet demand , posing fair questions from the community for those , like me , who support the Government ’s ambitious house building agenda . While they have changed , Banbury , Chipping Norton , Charlbury and the villages of north and west Oxfordshire have not lost their sense of community . The community united across political divides , and none , in defence of our local Horton General hospital when it was faced with downgrading , successfully fighting it off in 2008 and less successfully in 2016 . As the use of food banks grew in the years after 2010 , people across the area came together to help support those in need . For example , the Chippy Larder in Chipping Norton has become a much - loved community resource . Food security in Banbury can not be considered without mentioning our rural farming communities and perhaps the most famous farm in the country : Clarkson ’s farm . For all the entertainment that the series has provided , for me the most important aspect of it is the light that it shines on the huge challenges faced by our farmers , and not just in the Banbury constituency but throughout the UK . I hope that the Government ’s programme to support them will relieve many of the burdens that have made farming so challenging for so long . Southill Solar farm on the edge of the Wychwood forest near Charlbury provides community owned power to 1,200 homes . That is another reason I am so passionate about this Government ’s exciting agenda on renewable energy . Then there is the volunteer driver service in Banbury , taking the elderly or those less able to hospital and GP appointments at nominal rates . Throughout the pandemic , as in other places , people across Banbury worked hard to help those less fortunate during that most testing of times . Banbury ’s community , led by some of its many thousands of Polish citizens , got together again to gather supplies to support the Ukrainian civilians fleeing that conflict , while welcoming others into their homes and communities . On that note , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Victoria Prentis . Although there was much in the campaign that we disagreed on , this side of the House was united with the Conservative party in support for Ukraine . I pay tribute to Victoria ’s decency and her clear compassion for humanity , exemplified as much by her taking a Ukrainian refugee into her home as by her nine years of service to the community . As for myself , I stand here in support of this Government and their mandate for change — something that Banbury has a history of embracing . Before I finish , I want to thank my family for their support , in particular my wife who , despite having multiple sclerosis , remains the strongest , most steady and most stable woman I have ever met . I stand here as someone Banbury born and bred , ready to build a better Britain and a better Banbury , and I am determined to do it . I call Yuan Yang to make her maiden speech . I congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) on her wonderful maiden speech . I know that her international background and deep expertise in international development will add much richness to our new parliamentary Labour party , and I also believe that an international background is essential to enriching the perspectives on our side of the House . In my previous life , before coming into this place , I spent eight years interviewing the leaders of international businesses , many of whom had long - standing commitments to investment in the UK , but who repeatedly told me and my former colleagues at the Financial Times that political instability was putting them off making future investments . That is why I very much welcome the remarks of our Minister on the international investment summit and the importance of the private sector ’s partnership with our Government . The 10 - year project that we have for national renewal , along with our 10 - year industrial strategy , shows our commitment to long - term economic ambition and planning . I congratulate the organisers of the summit , which brought together more than 300 industry leaders and secured more than £ 60 billion of investment . That is 60 % more than was raised last year , and it will create nearly 38,000 jobs , one of which is bringing Elton John out of retirement . Unfortunately , private investment in the UK since the global financial crisis has been much less “ Rocket Man ” , and more “ Tiny Dancer ” . Over the last decade and a half , Britain has experienced a much larger slowdown in the growth of capital intensity than comparative countries such as the US , France and Germany , and it is that , alongside our skills growth , which accounts for our productivity puzzle . I very much welcome the appointment of John Van Reenen , the wonderful LSE economist , to our Council of Economic Advisors . He has done important work on productivity in the UK , and he suggests that our post - financial crisis fall in productivity growth is primarily due to a large fall in capital accumulation . In other words , British workers are being held back by low levels of public and private investment , and that is what our Government need to unlock to succeed in our growth mission . We will provide stability , but stability alone is not enough . In the 21st century we must do more to provide industry and business leaders with the leadership that they require to navigate our increasingly complex geopolitical world , in which there is fragmentation of supply chains across the world , as well as the green transition . That means an industrial strategy . I welcome the publication of our Government ’s industrial strategy earlier this month , and particularly the focus on life sciences as one of the key eight sectors for investment . My constituency of Earley and Woodley in the Thames valley is a prime location for foreign direct investment , particularly in life sciences , and I am proud that the Thames valley is the fastest growing region in the UK outside London . I congratulate the Thames valley chamber of commerce , with which I have already worked in my first 100 days , on securing over the last decade more than 1,000 instances of foreign direct investment . We can measure the excitement of business and the private sector for our Labour Government by the amount of engagement I have already had from businesses in my constituency and through Thames valley chamber of commerce . The biopharmaceutical group Lonza , which is Swiss in origin , received a grant of £ 30 million over the summer to expand and relocate to my constituency in the Thames valley park , which is one of three business parks in the area alongside Thames Valley science park and Green park . I recently met Bayer , originally a German company , which employs hundreds of people at its headquarters in my constituency , and contributes to crucial health and life science research in the UK . Advancements in life sciences have fundamentally improved not just the economy and innovation of the UK , but the length and quality of life here and around the world . That is why I welcome the Health Secretary ’s mission to ensure that the NHS receives the cutting - edge treatments being pioneered by companies in my constituency and beyond . Life science investment , if done correctly , can be a significant driver of growth and productivity — our central mission . I look forward very much to meeting the Minster for Industry next week to discuss how we can give full range to life sciences companies in our constituencies , and to the clinical research taking place in the Royal Berkshire hospital , which is at the forefront of much research in medical trials . That hospital will benefit greatly from private and public investment . Businesses do not exist in isolation , and what makes some countries prosper is the strength of their institutions . Responsible and highly productive businesses wish to retain their skilled workforces , who require countries with well - functioning public service provision , infrastructure and accessible housing . Those companies want political stability and a regulatory framework that works for business , workers , and the consumer . That is why Labour ’s pitch to business does not end with the international investment summit , but continues with legislation that the Government are passing , such as the Employment Rights Bill . Providing the foundations for businesses to thrive means fixing the foundations of our economy and society , and that is what I am proud to say our Labour Government will do . Diolch yn fawr iawn — I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the privilege of making my maiden speech in this House . I follow a long list of maiden speeches and so I perhaps offer no novelty , but I will take the opportunity of offering familiarity . I come to this debate on the international investment summit having spent the last decade on the frontline of investment , backing the inventors of artificial intelligence data and wider software businesses across this country and the United States . I therefore know the cause with depth and personal experience , and in particular I know that no working - age person in this country has seen a start - up go to the FTSE top 10 . In the United States , eight out of 10 have experienced that . In the last decade of innovation , Britons in this country and in the Vale of Glamorgan have been denied the opportunity of shaping their destiny . Decline no more , because I know from speaking to investors , including those at the summit , that they believe what I know with this Labour Government : change is on the way and has begun . My role has been to put the Vale of Glamorgan front and centre in that wave of change , but I start by also recognising the dual impact that change in this House always has . For every maiden contribution , there is a contribution that has been , and in my case I wish to recognise that of my predecessor , the right hon . Alun Cairns , Conservative MP for the Vale of Glamorgan for 14 years . In those 14 years Alun served our constituency with sincerity . In fact , he was so sincere that I remember knocking on doors in Cadoxton in Barry with the best constituency Labour party in the country , only to have my hopes dashed by a lovely elderly lady who said , “ I am going to be voting for Alun , the best Labour MP this town has ever had . ” We all carry an inflated sense of our personal vote in this House , beyond our political allegiances , but in that moment I have to say that I felt and saw one . I congratulate Alun on his service and wish him the best with the inevitable duality of change that we share , but I also commit to him some continuity in the service that he and his predecessor , the Labour MP John Smith , offered the constituents of the Vale of Glamorgan — and continuity also because the cause of Barry ’s development , which I know Alun initiated , will echo for years to come as my top priority too . I offer continuity because in fact the Vale of Glamorgan stands out for its continuity . There is continuity as the world centre of education . It was in Llantwit Major and St Illtud ’s church that the UK ’s first college was sited , not only home to St Illtud , but also host to St David in the early sixth century . In was in Cowbridge in 1795 that one of the first Gorsedd of the Bards was hosted by Iolo Morganwg , since then a font of appreciation for the Welsh language , Welsh literature and Welsh poetry . There is continuity not just in education but in energy , with Barry being the world ’s powerhouse and the largest coal exporting port in this country , and indeed the largest in the world in 1913 , and with Aberthaw not just one of the most advanced power plants of its time , but now the host of my and my constituents ’ future dreams of a centre of excellence in green energy . Alongside energy and education , there is continuity in the world ’s pinnacle of natural beauty — a title I will only share , perhaps , with my hon . Friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) , with our shared Welsh background . My hon . Friends from Dorset and Devon might have the Jurassic coast , but I confess that in the heritage coast of the Vale of Glamorgan we have every bit of the beauty and the history , and perhaps , for being a better kept secret , a brighter future too . Finally , there is continuity not just across education , energy and the beauty that we have , but in the heart and humour of the people of the Vale of Glamorgan . Barry is the town that hosts “ Gavin and Stacey ” , and in particular the heart and humour of Uncle Bryn , my favourite character , who when driving down the M4 blasting out James Blunt songs has been a personal inspiration to me each time I leave this esteemed Chamber for the even more esteemed comfort of Barrybados . I have seen the heart of the community spirit across the Vale of Glamorgan in Big Bocs Bwyd , which is an initiative across schools that started in Barry and now goes beyond it , ensuring that no child goes hungry when they are learning . There is the real struggle and the fight that I see each week in the Vale Domestic Abuse Services in my constituency , fighting the onslaught of violence against women that we have seen not just in the vale but across this country , and there is the powerful heart of the voice choirs of Barry , Llantwit Major , and Cowbridge , which were able to combine the pure heart of “ Calon Lân ” with the deep optimism of “ The Greatest Showman ” in one night . I come here with news of the heart and humour of the Vale of Glamorgan , but also to report its honest challenges . We have the honest challenge of Barry , where , when delivering medicines as a volunteer , I learned that the pharmacist was issuing multiples of painkillers per patient , compared with the same pharmacist in Cardiff . We have the honest challenge of our beautiful farmlands , where third and fourth- generation farming families are fighting a great but difficult fight against the combined challenges of weather , disease and uncertainty . We have the honest challenge of the veterans of the Vale of Glamorgan , who are not seeking the world , but simply seeking a bit of public service for the exceptional national service they gave us . Money does not buy most things in life . It does not solve most of our problems , but its absence and the deprivation entrenched over the last decade are at the root of many of them . In particular , that has chipped away at the dignity of my community . That is why I come here with the twin ambitions of greater prosperity and a deeper bond of dignity in the Vale of Glamorgan and across the UK . I do so not as a political slogan or out of political theory , but out of a history of personal gratitude , because it was 22 years ago that the Vale of Glamorgan and south Wales , including Cardiff , offered a newly arrived set of parents the opportunity of a minimum wage and a night shift to subsidise the sleep of their young boys . In the absence of any holidays , it was Barry island that first gave those two young boys the opportunity of relief , and perhaps even some delight , over the weekend . It was south Wales , where I grew up with my brother in a situation of particular economic stress , where I felt , through the deepest privileges of education , that I could go on to advise the Prime Minister and the civil service , to advise FTSE boards across the City , to invest in tomorrow ’s inventors and ultimately to stand before the House as Wales ’s first Member of Parliament from an ethnic minority background . When I stand for my twin ambitions of prosperity and dignity for the vale , I will do so out of that personal history of gratitude . For as long as I serve as the vale ’s voice here in Westminster , I will fight each day for the people in my community .