Today , the Levelling Up , Housing and Communities Committee has published a special report on the response times of the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities to the Committee ’s reports . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for kindly granting time to our Committee for a statement on the special report , and I thank the Committee staff for their support to assist us in producing it . The House has appointed our Committee to scrutinise the Department . The issues that our Committee considers affect the day - to - day lives of constituents up and down the country . During this Session , we have published reports on topics such as adult social care , housing supply and funding for levelling up . We have also investigated damp and mould , and reforms to the private rented sector — two issues that are raised on a daily basis in correspondence to the Committee and in our mailbags as constituency MPs . We have heard evidence from hundreds of witnesses , who have given up their time to share their experiences — in some cases , harrowing and deeply personal experiences — to inform the Committee ’s work . They do so in the expectation that our reports and recommendations will influence Government policy and improve people ’s experience of public services . For our scrutiny of Government policy to be fully effective , the Government must consider and respond to our conclusions and recommendations . Sometimes the Government will accept our recommendations and sometimes they will not . What is important is that we receive a response from the Government . Their responses demonstrate that they have considered the views of the Committee and allow the public to see what the Government are doing in response to our inquiries . It is a well - established convention that the Government should respond to all Select Committee reports within two months of publication . We understand that that will not always be possible , perhaps during a parliamentary recess or where recommendations are directed to more than one Department . However , delays should be the exception not the rule , and we expect open and proactive communication from Ministers and officials on the rare occasions when they expect a Government response to be delayed . The experience of our Committee is that the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities has historically and consistently failed to respond to our Committee reports within a reasonable time . During this Session , we have published seven reports and not one of the Government ’s responses has been published within the two - month deadline . On average , Government responses to our reports have been almost six months late . The responses to our reports on funding for Levelling Up , on the Electoral Commission ’s strategy and on exempt accommodation were all late . The response to our report on adult social care was eight months late ; The response to our report on social housing was 10 months late . The response to our report on permitted development rights was one year and eight months late . We are still waiting on overdue responses to our reports on reforms to national planning policy and on reforming the private rented sector . Our Committee staff spend a disproportionate amount of their time , resources and energy attempting to engage with Ministers and officials , through formal and informal channels , to get responses . Over the years , as Chair of the Committee , I have seen responses being late , but things have got progressively worse . In March 2022 , the Chair of the Liaison Committee wrote to the then Leader of the House to highlight cases of “ egregiously overdue ” Government responses . The Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities was identified as a repeat offender when it came to late responses , and was responsible for five of the 13 examples in that letter . In January this year , we asked the permanent secretary about his Department ’s failure to respond . He said : “ We need to make sure that it is an important responsibility of the Department that we respond on time . ” We have seen little evidence that the Department has taken this responsibility more seriously . Indeed , in the case of our report on reform in the private rented sector , published in February , the lack of response has been deeply disappointing . The two - month deadline passed on 9 April . On 3 May , the Secretary of State wrote to the Committee to explain that the delayed response will be published “ alongside the introduction of the Renters Reform Bill ” . The Bill was introduced on 2 May , but we have still not received a response to the report . Instead , we have heard that a response will be published “ as soon as possible ” . We have made seven separate formal requests for the response , as well as many informal requests , but we are still waiting for the Government ’s response . It is now more than five months overdue . The Committee broadly supports the legislation on private rental reform and has made suggestions for its improvement . We now need to hear whether the Government plan to accept these recommendations , and if not , why not . We expected a response in April ; we were promised one in May ; we are now in September and still waiting . We are also waiting for the Second Reading of the Bill . We hope to receive the response before Second Reading , although that appears to have been somewhat delayed as well . It is imperative that the Government fully consider the Committee ’s conclusions and recommendations in the report , and publish a full response imminently . Our special report calls for a Government response on the private rented sector in the next two weeks , along with an explanation as to what has caused the delay . We have requested an assessment from the Cabinet Secretary about these matters . Finally , we have asked the Liaison Committee to consider a formal review of Government response times , including our experiences with this Department . In reality , a Select Committee ’s powers and effectiveness are significantly undermined when the Government do not fulfil their responsibilities towards it . Ministers must be accountable to this House . We , as a Committee , treat our responsibility to scrutinise the Department and its Ministers with the utmost seriousness . It is time that the Department for Levelling Up , Housing and Communities took its responsibilities to our Committee and the House equally seriously . The first step in doing so must be to respond to our principal output — our reports — in a professional and timely manner . I normally take great pleasure in coming to the House to report on the Committee ’s inquiries and findings . It gives me no pleasure at all to have to make this statement today . I hope I do not have to make a similar statement in the future .