My hon . Friend can see just how keen I am to act on this issue . He is right that taxpayers are paying the price for the Conservative Government allowing waste and fraud to spiral out of control . The Chancellor of the Exchequer recently took decisive action by appointing a new covid counter - fraud commissioner to help us recover public money and ensure that this never happens again . I am working closely with the Public Sector Fraud Authority to push every avenue to detect fraud , from advanced artificial intelligence and analytics through to strengthening our enforcement powers . It is a privilege to follow the contributions today , in particular that of my hon . Friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who spoke so powerfully about his personal experiences . I know he will be a great champion for his constituency . I am honoured to be the Member of Parliament for the newly renamed Burton and Uttoxeter constituency — a community rich in history and diversity . Although there were no boundary changes , the inclusion of Uttoxeter recognises the proud people and industries that are integral to our area . I am further honoured to be delivering my maiden speech in this debate on Black History Month , which reminds us of the importance of recognising the contributions of black Britons , past and present , to our society . In my constituency , the Burton Caribbean Association has supported residents for more than 45 years . Its efforts have enriched our community and celebrated the heritage of black Britons in our towns , and I look forward to supporting its work . As I serve in this House , I commit to representing the diverse communities across my constituency , ensuring that their voices are heard , their contributions celebrated and their challenges addressed . We all have a duty to ensure that black history is British history , woven into the fabric of our national identity not just for one month , but all year round . It is essential that we not only recognise that history , but address the challenges of inequity that remain . To be elected to this House is the greatest honour that anyone can bestow , but have the opportunity to serve your home town , as I do , is particularly special . I grew up in Stretton and went to local schools , William Shrewsbury and de Ferrers — the primary schoolteacher who appointed me to the school council all those years ago that she has a lot to answer for . On the campaign trail , I bumped into many of my former teachers and schoolfriends , including my former headteacher , Mrs Hunter . While I was campaigning after becoming an MP , a former teacher said , “ I must be getting old , my former student is now my MP . ” You can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , how strange this must feel for my parents , who are watching this debate . I believe they were the hardest - working parents of any candidate across the country and without them I could not do this job . They have been with me from the very beginning — quite literally . I come from a military family and I am proud of the service of my brother , alongside all who wear the uniform of our country and defend our freedom . As Remembrance Day approaches , it serves as a powerful moment to reflect on those who have given their lives in service to our country , and to honour the sacrifices made by veterans , current service personnel and their families . The values of duty , service and sacrifice are not just words ; they are the lived experiences of everyone who serves , and I will always advocate for ensuring that they receive the respect , care , and support they have earned . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Kate Kniveton , who served in this House from 2019 until the last election . Like me , she is a Burtonian and a former employee at the Burton Albion football club . Kate used to manage hospitality and I used to manage the bar in the stand , so I am used to managing difficult people — such as Opposition Members . I commend Kate ’s courage and bravery in speaking out about the sexual violence she faced . For any woman to go through that privately must be unimaginable , but to waive anonymity and do so in the public eye to help other women is commendable . She undoubtedly helped others through speaking out , and I wish her and her daughter well for the future . I also recognise my Labour predecessor and friend , Janet Dean , who served as the MP for Burton from 1997 to 2010 . When Janet was elected to this House , I was not quite born yet — apologies if I have made anybody feel old — but it was Janet and her colleagues in that Labour Government who gave children like me new textbooks , new play equipment , smaller class sizes and specialist support for more vulnerable children . Much of that has now been unpicked , and it falls to this Government to give kids today the opportunities that I and my generation had under that last Labour Government . Janet has continued to dedicate herself to serving the community and can still be found helping out in Uttoxeter , particularly at Redfern ’s Cottage , where she makes a mean cheese scone . I am delighted to represent a constituency that is diverse in both its people and its places . We have two major towns surrounded by many beautiful villages . Our largest town , Burton upon Trent , is best known for its brewing heritage . We are still the heart of UK brewing today , with large companies such as Molson Coors and Marston ’s and independent brewers such as Burton Bridge , Uttoxeter Brewing Company and Tower Brewery . We often hear the remark that there must be something in the water , but in Burton there literally is : our water is rich in calcium sulphate , creating the ideal formula for pale ales and bitter — so much so that many other places copied us through a process called Burtonisation . Members are of course welcome to join me in sampling the original and the best . The iconic red triangle of Bass became the world ’s first ever registered trademark . Because of Bass ’s global reach , it can be found all over the world , though of course , hon . Members will spot it in the many wonderful pubs across my constituency . The Devonshire Arms and the Coopers Tavern are my personal favourites . During my time in the House I will be an advocate for the brewing industry and our pubs , which are a key part of not only our history , but of our present and future . In Burton , more than 15 different languages are spoken . We have vibrant Pakistani , Polish and Romanian cultures . That mix of cultures makes us stronger and is in keeping with the motto of our county of Staffordshire , “ The Knot Unites ” . If you head north - west from Burton , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will probably do so on the A50 , where you will most likely end up in congestion — do not worry : that is something I am working on with the Roads Minister , who happens to be on the Front Bench — but eventually , you will end up in the town of Uttoxeter . Uttoxeter is a beautiful and proud town with a rich history of agriculture and manufacturing , and is home to Uttoxeter racecourse . In the short time I have been Uttoxeter ’s MP , I have heard several quite strange pronunciations of the town ’s name from hon . Members . Local people , however , fondly refer to the town as at “ Utch ” or “ Utcheter”—I apologise to the Hansard reporters for the difficulty I have just caused . In Rocester we find the iconic yellow diggers of JCB , which is headquartered and has several factories in my constituency . I am proud of the ingenuity and innovation that we have locally , and I will continue to stand up for British manufacturing during my time in this House . As this Government put service back at the heart of public life , there are so many of my constituents who go out of their way to help others , volunteering in food banks and youth clubs and running community activities . I have been humbled to visit some of these groups , from the BAC O’Connor Centre to the Sexual Abuse Rape Advice Centre , Burton YMCA , Burton HOPE , Uttoxeter Heath Community Centre and The Community Church , and I look forward to visiting many more during my time in this House . Before being elected I was a communication officer for Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue service , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all my former colleagues and to this country ’s firefighters , control and support staff for the dedicated work they do to keep us safe . I look forward to continuing my association with the Fire Service in Parliament . Upon taking up my role in this House , I sadly left my role as a Unison workplace trade union rep , but it was with great pride that on Monday I voted for the Employment Rights Bill , which is just one part of Labour ’s new deal for working people . I believe that that Bill , like the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 , will be one of the landmark pieces of legislation by a Labour Government . It will transform the lives of workers across the country , strengthening their rights , ensuring fair treatment and restoring balance in a system that has too often been skewed against working people . As a proud trade unionist , I will continue the fight for working people in this House , ensuring that their voices are heard and securing the rights they deserved . I thank my constituents for the honour they have given me of serving them . Every day that I am in this House , I will work to serve them to the very best of my ability .