The holy grail sought by all Governments , of whichever hue , is economic growth . I therefore think it important for us to look through the lens of economic growth , and to think about whether the Bill drives it . I recall from my time in Committee , where I spent many hours listening to the oratory of the hon . Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , that we spoke a great deal about productivity and whether it would be driven by the Bill . I have spoken about the possible impact of the Bill to people in my community , including representatives of Enlightened HR and Alison Bennett , a human resources consultant , for whom its destination was very welcome . Indeed , we have heard from many other people who have been consulted that the Bill ’s destination and aspirations are correct and appropriate , but it is a question of how we get there and whether the Government have achieved the right balance between employers and employees . That is important , because the last thing we want the Bill to do is have a chilling effect on the economy . We are only too well aware that the national insurance contributions that are set to kick in next month are already having that negative impact , and we do not want this well - intended Bill to echo that further . There are 250 amendments before us at this late stage of the legislation . The Minister says that that is due to levels of consultation and so forth and should be welcomed , and that we are trimming our sails , but if that is the case , and if the Minister was in such listening mode in Committee , why did the Government accept no Opposition amendments whatsoever ? I should welcome some reflections from the Minister when he winds up the debate . As a Liberal Democrat , and the Liberal Democrat spokesman for the Department for Work and Pensions , I can say that carers are at the front and centre of our world . What is effectively the population of Portsmouth—200,000 people a year , or 600 a day — walk away from the employment market to take up caring occupations and , in many instances , support family members . That has an £ 8 billion annual impact on our economy , which leaves us less productive . I hope that the Government will give serious thought to our amendment to make leave for carers a paid opportunity , because giving them that flexibility and that breathing space would unlock more people for our employment market . Our proposal to make caring a protected characteristic is extremely important . We have already heard about harassment and discrimination in connection with other parts of the Bill , but this would help immensely to support carers . Doubling the pay of those taking adoption leave is also important , as is support for people who take caring roles such as kinship care . I hope that the Ministers will take those family roles into account .