I begin by congratulating the hon . Members for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) on their excellent maiden speeches , which gave a real flavour of their constituencies and their constituents . Today ’s debate highlights once again the wider issues of building safety and poverty . The safety of the buildings that house people and their families should not be subject to their economic status , and we must work together across the House to level the playing field to provide safety for all in this country . There is clearly much work to be done to achieve this , and I am grateful to the Minister for noting that we will have an opportunity to further discuss this issue at a future date . It is with immense pride that I can say that in July , on my third attempt , I was elected to represent the residents of the Guildford constituency , the place that has been my home for the past 25 years . In my speech at the count following my election , I made a commitment to my residents that I will be an MP for everyone in my constituency , including those whose voices have gone unheard for too long . I reiterate that promise today . I first stood for elected office in 2008 , driven by a love for my community and a deep frustration that my area of Bellfields and Slyfield was being failed by the Conservatives . I dedicated myself to helping those at risk of losing their homes , working on community projects and being the voice of my community fighting for change in the council chamber . Some 16 years later , I am here in this Chamber because of my frustration following 14 years of Conservative failure that has , once again , left communities across Guildford and the whole country struggling . I am also here because the people of Guildford felt that too . They said , “ Enough is enough ” , and felt that I could be their voice for change in this great Chamber . I am honoured by the trust they have placed in me . We are here as MPs to serve our residents , our constituencies and our country . I hope that will always be at the forefront of our minds as we fulfil our work as MPs , and particularly as we speak in this Chamber and as we vote . Speaking of service , I would like to take a moment to acknowledge and thank my predecessors , Angela Richardson , Anne Milton and Sir Paul Beresford , part of whose former constituency is now part of the constituency of Guildford . Angela and Anne served Guildford , its residents and businesses with determination for 14 years . I thank them on behalf of our constituents . Now , on to my wonderful constituency . Guildford is an ancient town . The earliest human activity in the area was in the mesolithic era and it is mentioned in Alfred the Great ’s will from 880 AD . The name Guildford means golden ford , which comes from the golden banks at the river crossing below St Catherine ’s chapel , but that was not the only golden watermark in this election . In June , we saw a golden tide of Liberal Democrat MPs , with 72 elected across the country , including six of us in Surrey . This victory is a message of change for our country and I am very much looking forward to working with my fellow Lib Dem MPs , particularly on the issues of special educational needs and disabilities and Thames Water . As an MP , I am especially committed to addressing the cost of living crisis that continues to push too many people into poverty , trapped by a crisis not of their own making . We must lift people out of hardship , ensuring that everyone has access to the services they need , without draining their pockets . I am sure that colleagues throughout the Chamber will agree that the fact that over 3 million people across the UK rely on Trussell Trust food banks alone in 2023 - 24 is a disgrace . It is a blight on our country and it must end . Guildford is not only a historical town but a modern hub of innovation , often referred to as the Hollywood of the computer gaming industry , and home to many high - tech businesses at the cutting edge of envirotech , defence , space and more . Our town is a tech hub that draws on the legacy of our constituency : Ada Lovelace , the mother of computing , lived at Horsley Towers in my constituency for many years , and Alan Turing , whose genius continues to be honoured through the Alan Turing Institute at my alma mater , the University of Surrey , had his childhood home in Guildford . My constituency is also blessed with breathtaking natural beauty , from the stunning RHS Wisley to the Surrey hills and our many National Trust properties , including the River Wey navigation , which the National Trust also manages . As MP , I am committed to balancing the continued evolution and success of my town and surrounding villages with protecting the natural beauty of my constituency for generations to come . That is why I will be championing in the House the cause of cleaning up our rivers . The River Wey , which flows through the heart of Guildford town and through the villages to the east of my constituency , has been the lifeblood of Guildford for centuries . It is central to Guildford ’s identity , its history , residents ’ leisure time and its future . The levels of pollution being recorded in our river month after month are disgusting , and that is impacting the health of nature , animals and residents . It is time to clean up our rivers and bring to an end the stories I hear too often on the doorsteps , about residents becoming unwell after going in the water . As one example , I met the coach of a children ’s cricket team earlier this year who shared how , in 2023 , his young team went for an end of season celebratory dip in the River Wey . Every single one of those children became ill after going in the river . I will end with two final thoughts . The first comes from my time studying music at the University of Surrey . It taught me the importance of harmony , both in art and in life . It is my sincere hope that together in this Chamber , over the coming years , we can create a symphony of voices , change the divisive rhetoric of the last few years and restore public trust in politics and politicians . If we do not , I worry about the future we leave for future generations . Finally , I want to express my deepest gratitude to my friends and family , particularly my husband , Chris , and my sons , Reuben and Josh , who have supported me every step of the journey to this place and continue to walk it with me . Without their love , encouragement and occasional campaigning skills I would not be here today . Slanderous ! I stand here , honoured beyond belief , to represent the great towns of Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield — towns that are part of the story of our nation . This is the land of dramatic sandstone avenues , of hills and skies , of romantic scenery in the shadows of Pendle Hill . This is the land of regimented urban landscapes , of terrace tops and towers nestled among chimneys and waterways , cushioned by villages , farms , country pubs and proper pints . We are England and Lancastrian and we are proud . Burnley , the “ meadow by the Brun ” , first recorded in the 12th century , has long been a hub of culture and commerce . We have a 13th - century market , the 14th - century Towneley Hall plays , and the 15th - century St Peter ’s church . Indeed , coming over the moors from the wrong side of the Pennines , Charlotte Brontë visited Gawthorpe Hall in Padiham , Wordsworth wrote of the site of Pendle Hill , and Burnley ’s most prolific poet , Henry Houlding , led a literary renaissance for northern towns in the 19th century . Once the epicentre of the global cotton trade , the workers of our towns built this country . It was said at its height that Burnley ’s cotton industry had clothed Britain by breakfast and the rest of the world by dinner . We are a birthplace of movements , too — suffragettes such as Margaret Aldersley , and fighters , leaders and thinkers . Non - conformists are we — radicals and reformers — and once the seat of a Labour leader no less in Arthur Henderson . I say all this because I want to stress that our story did not start or end with the mills . Looms for a long time were our tools . In our hands was the industrial world made , but now we are so much more . We do not buy the standard story of decline . We are a place determined , with eyes focused on the future , hungry to play our part . By the way , we have no greater example of Burnley endurance and enterprise than Burnley Football Club . Yes , sometimes in the face of emotional trauma — at times extreme — they are twice champions of England and one - time winners of the FA cup . Let me say , I believe for the first time ever in this House , “ Up the Clarets ! ” As towns , we are now a thriving , dynamic , multicultural symbol of renewal and creativity . To be made in east Lancashire is to be a benchmark of quality , particularly in our manufacturing , aerospace sciences and cultural industries , with world - beating , amazing , innovative companies putting us on the map . We are also unusual politically , in that the constituency has been represented by all three major parties in the past 10 years alone , although I hope to bring a very lengthy period of stability in that regard . Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield are so often painted as towns with problems and extensive poverty , which is true , but to end our description there is to misunderstand our mindset , our mission , our sense of history and community . Our fight is not in trading narratives as to how we got here . We have problems , yes , but we do not simply retreat to the warm nostalgia of our history . We know that that way lies only stagnation . Our fight is in creating solutions for tomorrow . Less interested in rhetoric , storytelling and ideology , towns such as mine want outcomes . For us , one ’s ability to deliver solutions means a lot more than the colour of a rosette . Outcomes are what matters . What is good is what works . In our public services , that means dependable quality , transparency , choice , the interests of users coming first and an approach that challenges every vested interest in the public interest . Reflecting on this mantra and the debate today , I want to talk a little about our housing stock . First raised by my predecessor , Peter Pike , in his maiden speech of 1983 , the once proud regimented sandstone avenues that I spoke of earlier — once a step up for families — are now in a poor and worsening state . Too many of my constituents live in substandard , under - insulated , cold and mouldy homes . Low land values lock out investment , but , more critically , lock out families from the decent accommodation that they deserve and write off whole communities as just not worth the investment . If we are to continue to thrive we need more housing , newer housing , more social housing and a decent retrofit programme not seen on a scale since the last Labour Government . It is only through that growth that we can achieve the sort of improvements in our public services that we need . That is the only way that we will attract the secure jobs and dynamic workforce of the future . Too many of our young people are stuck in a generational cycle of worklessness , which holds back entire families , because of a lack of opportunities , skills , connectivity and , actually , confidence . We will only truly grow as a country when people in places like ours feel that growth touches them ; when prosperity reaches the doorsteps of our terraces ; when we break the cycle and say , “ If you have the will , we will give you the way . No one left behind . ” In my time here , I hope to represent to the best of my ability those values and ambitions . At this juncture , as is tradition , I pay tribute to my predecessors : in Burnley and Padiham , Antony Higginbotham ; and in Brierfield and Nelson East , Andrew Stephenson . Both very decent and hard - working men , they campaigned on many local issues in their years in this House , and had many friends across the House , which was testament to their character . I genuinely wish them both well for the future . I am the great - grandson of Irish immigrants , from Dublin and across Ireland , who made their life in Manchester . I was aged two , and one of two kids to a single mum , when Labour took office in 1997 . It is because of that Government that my mother was supported through illness to raise us , by an NHS with the time and resources to care . Schemes such as Building Schools for the Future , first praised by my predecessor Kitty Ussher in her maiden speech in 2005 , gave me this future , and I am one of many . We stand on the shoulders of giants in this place , but I was able to climb on to those shoulders only because of a supportive family , who are watching from the Gallery , and the ladder that that Labour Government provided for kids like me and families like mine , from towns like mine . I know that this new Labour Government will strive to do the same , and I for one am enormously proud to be a part of it . I start by congratulating the hon . Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , the hon . Member for Guildford ( Zöe Franklin ) , my hon . Friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and the hon . Member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speeches . It is great to start my time in this place by proving no fewer than five colleagues wrong about their constituency being the best , because obviously that is an award that belongs to the people of Milton Keynes North . This is such an important debate on an issue that affects many of my constituents and those of other Members representing Milton Keynes . I am glad to hear that this Government will work to ensure that everyone feels safe in their home . As the brother of one of our brave local firefighters in Milton Keynes , I echo the comments of many colleagues who paid tribute to those in our emergency services who have dealt with such incidents . I hope that they have to deal with far fewer in future . It is an immense honour to stand here today as the new MP for Milton Keynes North . I am deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of Milton Keynes but many of the beautiful villages and historic towns around which it was built . In my constituency lies the old market town of Olney , where 250 years ago the timeless hymn “ Amazing Grace ” was penned . There is Wolverton , which boasts the oldest operational railway works in the world ; Stony Stratford , where I am told the term “ cock and bull story ” originated — thankfully not something we are known for in this place — and Newport Pagnell , which for over half a century hosted the headquarters of Aston Martin . Next week marks 60 years since the release of the film “ Goldfinger ” , in which the most famous car in the world , the DB5 , made its debut . Last week , I had the pleasure to visit Aston Martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of “ On Her Majesty ’s Secret Service ” was filmed . Can I promise that my contributions in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenaline of those films ? No , I can not , but as the MP representing towns with such fascinating pasts , I promise that I will fight to give them all an even brighter future . I start by paying tribute to my predecessor , Ben Everitt . He worked tirelessly to try to secure a much needed women ’s and children ’s hospital for Milton Keynes . As we now have some of the longest NHS waiting lists in the country , it is an important campaign , and I will be sure to take up its reins . He also chaired the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which looked at how we fix the broken planning system — some of the issues have been discussed today . I hope that this new Government take forward many of the recommendations that emerged from that work as we strive to build the 1.5 million new homes that this country needs . I would like to take a moment to mention my Labour predecessor and friend , the late Brian White . Brian was a true champion of Milton Keynes . He saw the potential in our city long before it was fully realised and , as an MP , local councillor and later mayor , Brian was a tireless advocate for our community . He was never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of us who knew him can attest . One of those battles was the successful fight to keep the laws in this place written on vellum . Unfortunately , we have since moved to a compromise position where only the front covers of each Act are printed that way , but since the only remaining vellum manufacturer in the country , William Cowley , is based in my constituency , I will fight with everything I can to keep what is left of this important 175 - year - old tradition . As the first MP for Milton Keynes who was born , and grew up , there , I would like to talk about the many men and women who built the new town — now city — that I call home . One in particular is Fred Roche , the man who led the Milton Keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromising vision . The mantra that everybody on that team lived by was , “ Make no little plans ” . Fred was a streetfighter , who more than anything else was willing to do what was needed to achieve something that many others have considered impossible : getting money out of the Treasury . Allegedly , he insisted on constructing the outer roads of Milton Keynes first , making it harder for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those working on HS2 wish they had thought of . He also once marched into Whitehall on Christmas eve and refused to leave until his budgets were approved . I just mention to the Government Front Bench that those are tactics I will not rule out using in the future . [ Laughter . ] For Members across the Chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visited Milton Keynes , what Fred and his team built was nothing short of a masterpiece . At times when families right across our country were living in substandard conditions — many would echo some of the comments we have heard today — and many were living without even an indoor toilet , Milton Keynes offered a beacon of hope . High - quality homes were built for tens of thousands of new residents and , at its peak , 10 families were moving in every single day . In just a few decades , what was once a vision on a planner ’s desk had transformed into one of the UK ’s most dynamic economic powerhouses . Today , we are home to Santander UK , one of the biggest banks in the country , and Red Bull Racing , the fastest Formula 1 team on the planet — when I spoke to Aston Martin last week , it told me to take out that line . The city of pioneers and innovators creates more start - ups than almost anywhere else , boasts a growing tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and ranks as one of the most productive places in the country . For every pound that Fred did manage to squeeze out of the Treasury ’s tight grasp , we have repaid it many , many times over . And while it may be known for its concrete cows , it is far from a concrete jungle . Some 40 % of our city is comprised of green spaces . Alongside those are our beautiful lakes , rivers and canals . Every child , including me , grew up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . It is said that planting a tree is one of the greatest acts of altruism . We dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generations to come . Fred Roche and the team planted more than a fair few trees . In fact , Milton Keynes boasts over 22 million trees , more than 80 per person . But I would argue that building a new town is an even greater act of altruism . Fred passed away a few years before I was born , but I stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefited from his vision . Thanks to Fred ’s design , my young parents were able to scrape together enough to raise me and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . The dream of home ownership became a reality for them , providing us with the security and stability needed for the best start in life . The parks and green spaces they created back then may one day be enjoyed by my own children . Now , I will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenges , ones I will work tirelessly to address in this place , but Milton Keynes was built on that new town promise of good jobs , public services that were there when you needed them , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new homes . It is a place that gave me the opportunities , so that I could one day be standing here , giving my maiden speech in the House of Commons . I mention that because in my short time in politics I have noticed that too often people search for excuses to oppose new developments . There is a view , or has been a view , that it is more politically convenient to be a voice that yells no , rather than a voice that searches for ways to say yes . And while the acronym “ nimby ” may be a modern invention , the sentiment is not . Glancing through Hansard of the ’ 60s and ’ 70s , we find countless examples of opposition to the building of my hometown . But there are consequences to that short - term political thinking . If it was not for Fred and the Milton Keynes development corporation team ’s ambition , backed by the 1960s Labour Government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and I grew up in would never have existed . As a proud son of Milton Keynes , I can think of no mission more important for this new Government than to build the new towns and new homes that this country needs . It will require us to embrace the spirit of Fred Roche — visionary , unyielding in the face of opposition , and making no little plans — but it will allow us to build a future where every child in Britain has the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurtures their potential , as mine did for me . I congratulate everyone on their maiden speeches . It is a privilege to follow my hon . Friends the Members for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , and the hon . Members for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Guildford ( Zöe Franklin ) and for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) . I represent the new constituency of Penrith and Solway , which takes in parts of the old Carlisle , Copeland , Workington , and Penrith and The Border constituencies . I therefore follow some truly great parliamentarians : Willie Whitelaw , a pillar of strength behind the Thatcher Government ; David Maclean , Lord Blencathra , who now excels in the tradition of likeable nuisances in the other place ; Baroness Sue Hayman , a champion of farming and rural affairs whose skills will be put to good use on the Labour Benches ; Sir Tony Cunningham , a family friend ; my father , a fine mentor ; Rory Stewart , who now entertains Members , at least on the Labour Benches ; Dr Neil Hudson , who has been re - elected as the Member for Epping Forest ; and Mark Jenkinson , who represented Workington from 2019 to 2024 — I may have profoundly disagreed with him , but I must confess that he worked hard for his constituents . I find myself slightly in awe at those Members whose predecessors have disappeared into the sunset . I will be seeing mine on a regular basis , but I promise to take any advice from them with grace . Like the hon . Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , I have the privilege of representing a constituency in which I grew up . My grandfather brought my family to Cumbria in the 1950s , and his work as an engineer saw him on the platform for the opening of Calder Hall , the world ’s first full - scale commercial nuclear power station . My family ’s love of Cumbria and the Lake district has endured ever since . I have had the pleasure of representing my home of Keswick on town and district councils and , more recently , on the new Cumberland unitary authority . I stepped down from that council knowing that my former colleagues will do their best to ensure that a challenging local government reorganisation is a success . As I begin my time in this place , I leave behind my work in the electrical contracting industry and my career as a contracts manager — a role that saw me work with many people in leasehold block management . It therefore seems apt that I make my maiden speech in this important debate . As a former electrician , it is not lost on me that the tragic events that unfolded at Grenfell Tower were triggered by an electrical fault . It is now imperative that the sequence of events that followed set the ground for long - lasting reform that ensures these things can never happen again . I commend the decision to create the Building Safety Regulator , with its focus on high - risk buildings . While many Members rightly push for reform of the leasehold system and extending the right to manage , I hope the new regulator acts as a defence against those whose only concern is keeping building management costs down . Winston Churchill once said : “ If you put two economists in a room , you get two opinions , unless one of them is Lord Keynes , in which case you get three opinions . ” When it comes to the interpretation of British standards affecting electrical safety and fire safety , my view is that if you put two electricians in a room , you will get two opinions , but if you put the bill payer in the room with them , you will only get one . The regulator should ensure that any new rules are unambiguous and can be applied consistently . I have heard a number of maiden speeches and do not wish to get into the unwinnable debate about whose constituency is the most beautiful . I will just take it as given that my constituency that takes in the Solway Coast national landscape , part of the North Pennines national landscape and , not least , the north Lake district , including the Borrowdale valley , for which I have a deep love , is undoubtedly in the top 10 . However , the real beauty of my constituency is not in its architecture , coastline , lakes or hills ; it is in the people . When I was first elected as a councillor , I was taken aside by an experienced and recently retired parish clerk , who had a message for me : “ It is n’t politicians who run things around here — it is the community . ” She was right . I am in constant awe of the tireless efforts that volunteers show in my community every day : the mountain rescue teams , who keep us safe on the fells ; the Maryport Rescue volunteers , who run the independent lifeboat service on the Solway coast ; the flood action groups , who hold our flood authorities to account ; our community - led housing trusts , who excel in delivering homes in rural communities , where larger housing associations fail ; the community groups in Ireby , Hesket Newmarket and Nenthead , fundraising to save vital community facilities at the heart of their villages ; our food hub volunteers ; Churches Together , the Lions , the Rotarians and all the other groups that give so much . They inspire me , and this politician ’s job must surely be to help them flourish . I head back to my constituency for the conference recess knowing that I have many issues to tackle . The Old Court House in Cockermouth , already half collapsed into the River Cocker , lies empty , with little progress being made by its owner and other authorities to make it safe . Residents of Penrith have been plagued for many years by a revolting odour from a local meat rendering plant . The infamous “ Penrith pong ” has been particularly strong over the summer months . Rural homes , many lacking modern home insulation , are in desperate need of Government investment to help permanently bring down energy bills . Farmers are in despair , as trade deals have failed to deliver and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs struggles to implement its new payment schemes . The local health service is struggling to recruit the vital staff my community needs to thrive . I am here in their service and to rebuild broken Britain , just as we promised we would during the election . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me in this extremely important debate . I congratulate my hon . Friends the Members for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on their touching and moving speeches . I really am proud to be one of the Scottish delegates . In the tradition of maiden speeches , I begin by paying tribute to my immediate predecessor , Deidre Brock , who represented the constituency for nine years — the first woman to do so . I wish her and her team well in their future endeavours . I would also like to pay tribute to Mark Lazarowicz , who represented the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continues to advocate for human rights , asylum seekers and the environment . The newly extended boundary once again includes Muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represented by the hon . Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) . This part of the constituency holds a special place in my heart as it neighbours West Pilton , where I lived and where my stepchildren went to school and attended Greater Pilton childcare centre during the 1990s . It is a groundbreaking facility providing families with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that I hope we can learn from and replicate . When we lived in West Pilton , our flat was riddled with damp . We had to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litres of water daily . Our children ’s health suffered , and painting over black mould was normal . We were lucky : we were eventually able to move . However , the flat is still there , and I would suggest that the issues remain too . Housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofitting homes . Access to safe and secure homes is a fundamental right , and although it is a devolved issue in Scotland , we must learn lessons and work together across Governments to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient homes for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . I also place on record my sincere thanks to Malcolm Chisholm , who helped us at this time . He represented Edinburgh North and Leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he moved to the Scottish Parliament , before standing down in 2016 . He is why I joined the Labour party . His reputation and integrity , his achievements and his passion for the people of Edinburgh North and Leith are rightly still recognised , and indeed he remains an inspiration to me and many others in our community and beyond . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think the record may have to be corrected as I have heard many hon . Members from across the House making an error by declaring that their constituency is the greatest in the country . They are of course mistaken . As many of those who have already visited will know , Edinburgh North and Leith can surely claim that accolade . From our amazing shops on Princes Street , George Street and the new St James Quarter , as well as our fantastic independent stores , we have the best retail across the country . We have world - class restaurants , cafés and bars — from the Johnnie Walker Whisky experience , which I was pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . Friend the Deputy Prime Minister , to the Lind and Lime gin distillers , where my right hon . Friend the Prime Minister was welcomed , and the Port of Leith distillery , the country ’s first vertical distillery . I extend a welcome to all my hon . Friends to visit and join me for a dram . Edinburgh North and Leith is steeped in history from Calton hill to the New Town , another UNESCO world heritage site , and onwards to Stockbridge , the home of Golden Wonder crisps ; Newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and Western Harbour , reclaimed from the sea . We are home to the Royal Yacht Britannia and the Royal Botanic Garden in Inverleith . Leith links has claims to be the birthplace of golf . And although the stadium is just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , Hibs , is Leith to the core . I can confirm that , as the song suggests , there is indeed much “ Sunshine on Leith ” , although not always on match days . Our famous port of Leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — has seen the comings and goings of ships from all over the world , bringing with them stories , goods and people that have shaped our identity . The historic landmark reminds us of our rich heritage and the importance of preserving it for the future . This is evidenced through our proud industrial and political history , being where Rose ’s lime juice was invented to prevent sailors from getting scurvy , and where Salvesen had a whaling business . In the present day , our port is reinventing itself for the next generation , with the green energy jobs of the future and with businesses such as Vestas and nearby Nova delivering wind and tidal energy . Stitched into our community are so many sites of natural beauty , with the Water of Leith flowing through the heart of our constituency and being hugged by the firth of Forth . With the world ’s largest arts festival on our doorstep , we house the Scottish National Portrait Gallery , Leith theatre , Customs House , North Edinburgh Arts , Edinburgh playhouse and the new Dunard concert centre , which is currently under construction . Alongside our film and music studios , we are home to many authors , artists , musicians and poets . I could go on , and I possibly have for too long already , but this is by no means an exhaustive list , and it does not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . I have yet to mention what makes Edinburgh North and Leith truly great : simply , it is our people . Being elected to this House to represent my home and my community is truly the honour of my life . I would like to thank everyone who trusted me with their vote . For those who did not , I hope that during my time in this place I can evidence that I will champion our home . I understand that there is so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , Edinburgh is a tale of two cities . Too many have been left behind and suffered through decades of neglect . Poverty remains stubbornly high and is a reality for so many children . In our city , food banks have become the norm , where people already struggling to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than them . We have a housing emergency with more than 3,000 homeless people , many of whom are families with small children living in hotel rooms with no kitchen , resorting to cooking meals each day from a kettle . We have the scourge of addiction etched on people ’s faces , clear for all to see . While our public services are underfunded and broken , our communities are resilient . I think of people such as Pauline Bowie , recently honoured for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteers and low - waged carers who work tirelessly each day for our community . Our strength lies in the people of Edinburgh North and Leith , who are known for their warmth , compassion and determination . Changing people ’s lives by offering hope was why this Government were elected , and it is why we must deliver . My journey started , like all of us , before I was born . I was born in Rottenrow maternity hospital in Glasgow . Yes , the House has not misheard me : there was a maternity hospital called Rottenrow . When I was a baby , and before I had a voice , decisions were made that would change and shape my life forever . I was lucky then , as I am now , to have people who loved and nurtured me . Although my mum , dad and gran are no longer living , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that I am in this place , as I left school at 15 with few qualifications and left home not long after . It took me many years to find my place in this world , and I am so grateful for the love of my stepchildren David and Zoe , for Zak and for my wife Melanie , for her love and support every day . To me , they are home . I thank all my friends , party activists , colleagues and loved ones who have supported me in my life and on my journey leading to this place . As a child growing up in the ’ 80s in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seems inevitable that I would end up as a proud product of the Labour and trade union movement . In my working life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to being a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the Children ’s Panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy has always been my passion . I have learned through life that when others give up on you , it is easy to give up on yourself . My promise to everyone in Edinburgh North and Leith is that I will not give up , and I will fight for everyone ’s right to thrive . I will be their voice in this place , and as is Leith ’s motto , I will always persevere . May I associate myself with the previous remarks regarding the Grenfell disaster and send my sympathies to all those affected ? I congratulate all the other Members on their eloquent and informative maiden speeches , especially my hon . Friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , with whom I will happily share probably more than a dram of whisky as we argue over the first two places for best constituency , which is , obviously , Isle of Wight West . First , I pay tribute to Annie Caddick , who won silver in the mixed doubles sculls at the Paralympics . We are all very proud of her . I also pay tribute to my predecessor Bob Seely for his seven years of service to the Isle of Wight as MP for the then largest constituency in the country . His interest in all things Chinese and Russian is legendary on the island . My dad was not a toolmaker , but he is a Conservative councillor . [ Hon . Members : “ Ooh . ” ] I have got the sympathy of everyone now , apart from those on the Conservative Benches . While we do not agree on politics , he and my mum ’s many years as councillors did teach me that politics is about service . It is also the reason I am stood on this side of the Chamber , although there is rather more room on the Opposition Benches on most days . My grandad Dennis , a lifelong Labour supporter , would be very proud that I am stood on this side . From being the largest constituency , the Isle of Wight is now two of the smallest constituencies : Isle of Wight West and Isle of Wight East . I stand here as the very proud Member for Isle of Wight West and the first - ever Labour MP to represent the island . I look forward to working with my colleague , the hon . Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) to improve the lives of all islanders , although it would appear he has got the early ferry home today , so he is ahead of me . It turns out that the island is pretty good at firsts . In 1660 , Freshwater resident Robert Hooke developed Hooke ’s law of elasticity . In 1843 , the UK ’s first amusement park opened at Blackgang Chine , and is still open today , albeit , for those who know it , much smaller , as it is slipping into the sea — that is not part of the attraction , by the way . Marconi established the first wireless station on the island in 1897 , and Saunders - Roe built the first ever hovercraft in East Cowes in 1958 . We still have a hovercraft service to this day . The first Isle of Wight Festival was in 1968 , but in 1970 the crowds were so large that the following year an Act of Parliament was passed banning such large - scale gatherings . The first consumer electric cars — the Enfield 8000 — were built in Cowes . In 2009 four - year - old Daisy Morris discovered a new species of dinosaur — not in the council but actually on Atherfield beach — known as the pterosaur . We even have our first prize - winning alpaca named Hip Hip Hooray at West Wight Alpacas . I am also the first owner of a chip shop to become an MP . [ Hon . Members : “ Ah ! ” ] There will be free pickled eggs for hon . Members when they come to the island . Of course , we are also known for sailing . A special thanks to the RNLI and independent lifeboats that put their lives at risk to save ours . The island is home to some fantastic produce that graces the menus and tables of some great eating establishments across the country — many will have tried them without even realising . There are fantastic tomatoes from Isle of Wight Tomatoes , asparagus and sweetcorn from the Arreton valley and Harvey Browns farm , beef from Cheverton farm , cherries from Godshill , and our own cheesemakers . We also have industry . We make blades for Vestas wind turbines , we make aircraft parts , and the Thames Clipper boats that hon . Members see from the Terrace are made at Wight shipyard in East Cowes . We have a thriving arts culture . The Trinity , Quay Arts and Apollo theatres , where a young Anthony Minghella started his acting career , are still very active . But it is the people who make the Isle of Wight . It is community that makes it a special place to live and the envy of towns and villages across the country . Whether it is the Saturday morning tea and cake in Niton , the regular events in Yarmouth , the community - run sports centre in Freshwater , the warm space in Northwood , the volunteers at Cowes food bank , the model train enthusiasts who open up to the community , the amazing work of Pan Together in Newport or the inclusivity of East Cowes , as well as the many charities — a special mention to the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust — community is the heart of the island . When I made it to this place , Isle of Wight West was referred to , along with many others , as a “ bonus ” seat — that appears to be code for “ Oh , fffair play — you won!”—but we won due to the hard work over the past five years of 120 volunteers , returning me as the only Labour councillor and now the first Labour MP for the island . I would like to thank every single one of them , but special thanks must go to my agent Phil Attfield , whose commitment was second to none . Extra special thanks must go to my wife Leah and my two children and grandchildren for their unwavering support and for putting up with me over the last few years . As rosy a picture as I paint of our wonderful island and how much we contribute to British life , we have all the same problems as coastal and rural towns , including poor access to NHS dentistry , GPs and adult social care , SEND education in crisis and a severe lack of secure and adequate homes . Those problems are exacerbated by our being an island . Imagine being charged between £ 50 and £ 300 every time you drove to a neighbouring county — travelling from Derby to Nottingham , from Southampton to Salisbury or from Oxford to Aylesbury would become prohibitive . Ferry travel across the Solent has become unreliable and ferociously expensive in the last few years , so much so that it is now a barrier to opportunity . Having to rely on expensive , privately run ferries means that school trips do not happen and NHS appointments on the mainland are missed , or patients are so worried that they travel the night before and pay for a hotel . My predecessor mentioned ferries 23 times in seven years , but ferries are such a huge issue to me and my constituents — I am guessing my hon . Friends have not realised this!—that I have promised to mention ferries and cross - Solent ferry travel at every opportunity , regardless of the topic . I might even get past 23 times in this speech . [ Laughter . ] I hope the House forgives me if I do . I am a husband , dad , grandad , walker of our three dogs and an enthusiastic visitor to island pubs . My focus while in this place will be on finding solutions to the issues that I have outlined . My job as MP is to champion the island in this House , to ensure that I represent all my constituents and that the island is no longer a forgotten outpost and gets its fair share of support from my Government , as well as action on ferries . [ Laughter . ] I extend a warm invitation to everyone on the estate to visit the Isle of Wight , and I make a plea to Ministers to visit . I spent some time in the first few weeks talking to the Doorkeepers and security and restaurant staff . I explained that I found this place to be one of the friendliest workplaces I have ever stepped foot in — bearing in mind I am self - employed . The response was that this has changed as a workplace very recently . When asked how recently , they all replied , “ The 5th of July . ” I am extremely proud to stand here today with my colleagues as part of a Labour Government dedicated to service , and I look forward to being part of a Government who build a future for the Isle of Wight and the country .