Motion made , and Question proposed , That this House do now adjourn.—(Gagan Mohindra . ) Having sat for many years next to Ann on this very spot on the Back Benches , and on the other side of the House as well , I want to echo my hon . Friend ’s remarks about Ann ’s incredible passion , pride and sense of justice , but I also want to mention her sense of mischief and the twinkle in her eye . She brought both passion and humour to this Chamber . She is sadly missed , and we are all greatly diminished by the lack of her presence in this House . Certainly in Cardiff West , where in her latter years she was a very active constituent and correspondent with me as her local MP , I certainly miss her letters , even though they created a great deal of work for me here in this place . I thank my hon . Friend for that intervention . Ann understood the need to keep jobs in local communities . Tyrone O’Sullivan , leader of the Tower Colliery buy - out , who sadly also passed away earlier this year , spoke at an event for Ann that was organised in March last year by our local Labour women ’s branch in Cynon Valley . Tyrone acknowledged and celebrated Ann ’s contribution to the fight for Tower Colliery , and he reminded me , only weeks before his death , of the importance of the working - class struggle for today . They showed the way to build local economies , building local wealth for local people , not encouraging local people to leave in order to get on in life . I share that vision and I try to carry on in the same vein with my work on the local economy in Cynon Valley . Ann fought battles on behalf of miners . When she became MP , our constituency was in the throes of fighting to keep the mining industry alive . Next year , we will remember 40 years since the 1984 miners ’ strike — the year when Ann became MP for Cynon Valley . I was , as a child , on the demonstration through the town of Aberdare with Ann . In her maiden speech in Parliament , Ann said that the miners ’ strike was “ a symbolic fight , a fight against the two Britains — the haves and the have nots . It is a protest on behalf of a lost generation of young men and women who have never been able to find a job in the valleys of South Wales . ” That fight continues . Public service workers , rail workers and health workers today are fighting against two Britains — the haves and the have nots . Ann also fought tirelessly for compensation for miners suffering health problems as a result of their work . As she said in the same speech : “ It is a heartbreaking experience — I wish that Conservative Members could share it — to see a miner gasping for breath even while using an oxygen mask . Yet , because he has not been diagnosed as suffering from pneumoconiosis , he does not get a penny in compensation . That is more than wrong , it is cruel and unjust . ”—[Official Report , 7 June 1984 ; Vol . 61 , c. 476 - 77 . ] I , like other Members in the Chamber , am currently involved in the ongoing battle for miners ’ pension rights and compensation , so again the fight goes on ; the thread of history continues . My hon . Friend ’s intervention is very timely , because I was just coming on to the point that Ann was renowned for her internationalism , from Cambodia to South Africa , to East Timor and Turkey , and of course , her commitment to supporting the Kurdish people . She was for over 20 years chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human rights , which continues to raise awareness of serious human rights violations throughout the world . She was also a member of numerous parliamentary Committees , including those on International Development and Foreign Affairs , and she headed the IPU Committee on the Human Rights of Parliamentarians throughout the world . As my hon . Friend said , Ann was sacked not once but twice from the shadow Cabinet . It is a great pleasure to be able to speak about my friend Ann Clwyd , whom I knew extremely well . I thank my hon . Friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) for the wonderful way she has put her memories on the record today . I first knew Ann when she was elected to Parliament along with me in the early ’ 80s . We shared an office in the Cloisters downstairs , along with about 25 other MPs . It was an extremely noisy place , because Ann had a great deal to say . Lord Campbell - Savours often came along to have an argument with Ann about something , or to tell her what to do , and she told him what to do and so it went on . Tony Benn was next door , and there were a number of others there , so it was not a quiet place . The office was also home to my dog called Mango , who came in as well . Ann was deeply concerned about Mango ’s health and often looked after Mango for me . One day there was a leak in the roof . It was literally a leak — there was a lot of talk about Government leaks , but this was a real leak with water coming in from the roof . The rest of us just moaned and groaned and phoned up services and said , “ Please fix this leak ” , but Ann ? No , no , no . I opened the Evening Standard at lunchtime that day . There was a picture of Ann Clwyd with an umbrella over her head , raincoat , wellington boots — the whole bit — explaining how Parliament had so deteriorated that she was forced to come in with protective gear to get through the day . She had this wonderful panache for publicising events and issues , but that hid a deep steel in what she did . She represented Cynon Valley , where Tower colliery was . I was at the next desk to her . The miners ’ strike came , and they wanted support , so she asked me to get a load of people from my constituency to go to Cynon Valley . We hired a coach and a van , we took food and we went in large numbers . Ann met us there . We built up a great relationship with Tyrone O’Sullivan , and it was an honour to be invited to speak at his funeral recently with my hon . Friend the Member for Cynon Valley . Ann was somebody who stood up for what she believed in . She and I were two of a very small group of MPs who opposed arms sales to Iraq and spoke up for the Kurdish people during the chemical attack on Halabja . We did a lot of activities around the place and worked closely together with all the Kurdish groups . Ann was rightly seen as a great friend of the Kurdish community . While she and I did not agree on the Iraq war , we were both on the record as opposing arms sales to Iraq . There were not many of us who were opposed to arms sales to Iraq before the war began . I saw Ann as a friend and colleague , and I worked closely with her as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human rights . During the Yeltsin period , we went on a delegation to Russia to try to defend the Chechen people , with the horrors they were going through . Ann was extremely assertive on behalf of the human rights group on that . I distinctly remember sitting in front of somebody who was presumably very senior in something because he had an unbelievable number of phones set out all round his desk , and Ann and I were speculating about which phone led to which person . It was her wit and humour that helped to get things through . I want to put on the record my thanks to her for so much of what she did . As chair of the human rights group , Ann also led us in a delegation to East Timor in 2000 to witness its referendum . It was difficult , because the Indonesian army was supposedly protecting the integrity of the referendum , which was a strange to - do . Ann , I and the late Alice Mahon were on a delegation , and we visited all the polling stations on behalf of the UN and met many people there . For some reason that I never really understood , Ann brought an amazing amount of luggage , which filled up the very small plane we went in to get there . The rest of us all became porters for Ann Clwyd ’s luggage — there was a lot of it , and it was very heavy . When we asked her to explain this , she said , “ I do n’t think it ’s any of your business how many cases I choose to bring , but it ’s very much your business that you ’ve got to carry them . ” So I said , “ Thanks , Ann — that ’s great . ” But we played our part in ensuring that the people of East Timor , who had been through hell for decades , actually saw their independence and some hope for the future . I want to say a huge thank you to Ann for the friendship , for the humour , and for the steel and determination on the human rights cause and all the other causes that colleagues have mentioned . She was always a good friend to me . We often did not totally agree on everything , but we totally agreed to respect each other in our disagreement , so we always got along very well indeed . That is a good example of how politics can work . I say to all her family : my condolences , and thank you for the life of Ann . It is a real pleasure to follow the many tributes to Ann , and particularly those from my hon . Friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) , who succeeded her in her seat . It is also a real pleasure to have Ann ’s family with us in the Gallery . I want to give a few personal thoughts about Ann . I was lucky enough to know her for decades . I first met her when I was 15 years old as an intern in the Welsh Labour party headquarters , and I remember being bowled over by her speaking at an event with great power , great passion and that strong sense of radicalism exemplified in so many of the comments we have heard . As often happens in politics , we can meet people when we are younger and think , “ Wow — what an incredible figure ” , but do they turn out to be that way when years later we meet them in Parliament or have the privilege of working alongside them in Parliament , as I did with Ann ? When I was able to join Ann in this place , she lived up to every aspect of what I had seen in her when I was a young teenager . I was Ann ’s Whip for a while . She had obviously had a tumultuous relationship with Whips , and indeed with party leadership over many years , but all I can say is that she was always utterly courteous and pleasant , even when there were difficult issues to be discussed . It was a real pleasure to work with her . We have heard about so many different campaigns that Ann was involved in , including Tower , the NHS , Iraq and miners ’ compensation , and she really did apply that campaigning zeal , expertise , tenacity , complete dedication and commitment to everything she turned her hand to . I had the particular pleasure of working with her on the Committees on Arms Export Controls . Arms exports were obviously a significant issue that she reflected on in many different capacities in her career . I remember working with her on the Committees — I will not go into too many details , because we are not supposed to reveal certain proceedings — and dealing with a lot of shenanigans , with things making it out into the media and so on . Ann ’s expertise and length of time in this place , having seen so much of it in the past , was a great instructor to me on how to handle such situations . Even amid all that , she never lost track of her clear purpose , which was to stand up for civilians affected by conflict , for children , for human rights , and for basic standards and decency , even in war and conflict . Ann spoke passionately about that issue on the very last day that she spoke in this place in the valedictory debate , which I will quote in a moment . She taught me an incredible amount about sticking to principles , driving forward and fighting through difficult political situations . Ann served as an MEP before coming into this place . I spent a lot of time with her here during the Brexit debates , which as we all know were tumultuous , tiring and trying at times . Ann never lost sense of her principles and what she stood for . My hon . Friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) talked about how Ann stuck to her principles and was very tough , but she was truly an internationalist . She was never afraid to tell it as it was in this place when she thought others were getting it right rather than us . In that valedictory debate , she said : “ There are other reasons why I was pleased that I went there first ” — referring to the European Parliament . “ I have to say that it was a cultural shock for me to come here , because I had not realised how delusional people here were . I will tell you why . It was because we gave the impression that we did everything better than everybody else , when in fact there were many examples of other countries doing things better than we did , and I was pleased to have had the opportunity of experiencing that . ”—[Official Report , 5 November 2019 ; Vol . 667 , c. 699 . ] Ann was deeply and passionately Welsh and British . She was proud of our country and what we did in the world when we were at our best , but she was also not afraid to tell it as it was and to question and criticise , whether on domestic or international issues or on so many of the other causes that she went for . How she spoke in that last debate really sums her up . Ann was a tireless advocate for , and regularly spoke to me about , human rights in a whole series of countries , from Türkiye to East Timor , as the right hon . Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) mentioned . She fought for children in the terrible conflict in Syria in recent decades . She proudly spoke up alongside other dear departed colleagues such as Jo Cox and others in those crucial debates about the situation for children in Syria . Despite all that international work , she never lost sight at all of the centrality of her constituency . I sat down with her couple of years ago after she had retired , and she talked with encyclopaedic knowledge about the Phurnacite plant and everything that went on with her campaign on that in the constituency . She told me that at one point it was the most polluting plant in western Europe . She was resolute in her desire to fight for better air quality and standards for her constituents . She was not satisfied when the plant had closed , but fought for the clean - up and the return of greenery and wildlife to that site . That sums her up . Ann helped , stood up for and advocated for so many people , particularly individuals detained abroad or who had their human rights violated . That may have been speaking up for Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe or others detained in a whole series of situations , though I would not want to breach any confidence . Ann was always on the phone to me about my own constituents who she worked bravely and tenaciously to support . I am sure that Ann ’s advocacy and campaigning touched hundreds and possibly thousands of people , and possibly changed their lives . They may not ever know that , but she did . I want to reflect on what a wonderful woman Ann was to spend time with privately . After she retired from this place I had the pleasure of spending a number of evenings , lunches and chats with Ann at her home . She would invite me over , and we would talk and gossip about politics and what was going on in here . We would get into some serious conversations about different issues and campaigns . She talked from her vast experience , but we also talked about her cats — she had stories about every one of them . I am a cat lover and , as the hon . Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) pointed out , Ann had a deep love of animals and had serious compassion for them . She told stories about their personalities and how they acted . She was incredibly proud of them . That showed that human and compassionate side of her character . I remember stumbling into Ann ’s house one evening . I do not know what had been going on but I had been running from one event to another . I had not eaten and I was looking a bit pasty . I walked in and Ann , who was not in the best of health at that stage , got up and said , “ Stephen , I ’ll make you a chop , I ’ll put some vegetables on and make you dinner . ” She cooked dinner for me and made sure I was fed and watered . That is a testament to the kind of person she was . Ann was a remarkable woman . She will be missed by many , not just for her incredible campaigning internationally , nationally and for her constituents , but for her friendship , companionship , mentorship and inspiration to many of us in this place from different decades , different political persuasions and different parts of our own Labour movement . We have heard today some of the stories that show why she meant so much to so many of us . I congratulate the hon . Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) on securing the debate . It is a privilege to celebrate the contributions of her predecessor , the right hon . Ann Clwyd , the former Member of Parliament for Cynon Valley , who sadly passed away in July , aged 86 . Ann was not just a public servant ; she was also a great ambassador , whose dedication to her constituents and commitment to the values of justice and compassion have left a significant positive impact on many people ’s lives . She was born in Flintshire on 21 March 1937 to parents Gwilym and Elizabeth . Ann was educated at Halkyn Primary School , Holywell Grammar School , the Queen ’s School , Chester , and University College Bangor before becoming a student teacher at Hope School in Flintshire . She moved on to become a BBC studio manager , freelance reporter and producer , and then a journalist for The Guardian and The Observer . As we have heard , she was a major advocate for the Welsh language . She campaigned to secure important funding to support it . In fact , I believe she could only speak Welsh until the age of five . She always made sure she took the parliamentary oath yn Cymraeg . In 1963 , Ann married Owen Roberts , a television director and producer . Ann ’s journey in politics spans several decades , during which she consistently demonstrated her resilience , integrity and genuine concern for the wellbeing of her constituents . Having joined the Labour party in 1968 , she first stood for Parliament in 1970 in my part of the world , the old constituency of Denbigh . She then contested Gloucester in 1974 before being elected as a Member of the European Parliament for Mid and West Wales from 1979 - 84 . While putting together these words , I realised that she would have served alongside my relative Beata Brookes , the former MEP for North Wales . Then , in a by - election in May 1984 , she became the Member of Parliament for the Cynon Valley , becoming , as we have heard , the first female MP to a hold a seat in the south Wales valleys . That was a seat she held until she stood down in 2019 . In total , she served 35 years in this place and is therefore Wales ’s longest - serving female MP to date . She was also , I believe , the oldest woman to have sat in the House of Commons . Between 1987 and 1995 , Ann was Opposition Front Bench spokesperson for women , education , overseas development and co - operation , Wales , national heritage , employment and foreign affairs . During that period , she was , as we have heard , sacked on two occasions for choosing not to toe the party line , an indication that she was independently minded and not afraid to put her principles above all else . Indeed , her autobiography was entitled , “ Rebel With a Cause ” . One of the most commendable aspects of Ann Clwyd ’s political career was her relentless pursuit of social justice . She championed human rights , advocating for those who often have no voice . Her work as the shadow Secretary of State for International Development and her role as the chair of the all - party parliamentary human rights group demonstrate her dedication to improving the lives of people in both her constituency and around the world . In 1994 , she staged a 27 - day sit - in at Tower colliery , near Hirwaun , in protest at British Coal ’s decision to close the last deep pit in Wales . The miners , of course , pooled their redundancy money to take it over and it went on to produce coal until 2008 . In 2003 , the then Government moved to amend the existing law on female circumcision — the Prohibition of Female Circumcision Act 1985 — after a private Member ’s Bill was introduced by Ann . The Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 increased the maximum penalty from five to 14 years in jail . Ann consistently campaigned for healthcare reform , and for better resourcing of the NHS . She worked to improve patient care , fighting for better working conditions for NHS professionals and increased transparency in the healthcare system . She was appointed by the then Prime Minister David Cameron to lead a review on complaint procedures in the NHS following the death of her own husband , Owen Roberts . While leading that review , she raised some difficult but honest concerns about healthcare in Wales . Her role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia helped to ensure that those affected by that devastating condition receive the support and care that they deserve . Ann Clwyd was not just a leader in her own right ; she was also a strong supporter of women ’s rights and gender equality . Her work in that area paved the way for greater gender representation in politics , and has inspired many young women to pursue careers in public service . Her legacy in this regard is a testament to her desire for creating a more inclusive and equitable society . She was made a Privy Counsellor in 2004 . Throughout her career , Ann Clwyd ’s ability to connect with people from all walks of life , listen to their concerns and take action on their behalf earned her the respect and admiration of her constituents and colleagues alike — and we have certainly heard plenty of examples of that this evening . I served in the House alongside Ann between 2015 and 2017 , and enjoyed my occasional conversations with her about the NHS and our shared connections in north Wales . She was personable , passionate and forthright . I understand that a public service to remember Ann ’s life and work will be held at 2 pm on 13 October at St Elvan ’s Church in Aberdare . I have no doubt that her legacy will continue to inspire many for generations to come .