I thank the hon . Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for securing today ’s debate . I am incredibly proud of many things in Beckenham and Penge , but particularly St Christopher ’s hospice . It was founded in 1967 by Dame Cicely Saunders , the founder of the global hospice movement . The movement came about because Dame Cicely , a nurse who was researching pain control , believed that more could be done to help people at the end of their life . That included dealing with physical symptoms and tackling the stigma around painkillers , but also the idea that people should be able to achieve emotional closure through individualised care and support . The assisted dying debate has been mentioned today by Members from across the House . I had over 2,000 constituents contact me about that debate , and there was roughly a 50:50 split between those who supported and opposed the Bill , but every single one of them was united by compassion , and they relayed their experiences of seeing people at the end of their life . I pay tribute this evening to a woman I was incredibly fortunate to work for in this place , Dame Tessa Jowell . Tessa was a very good friend , a mentor and an amazing boss . Six years ago next week , she made her final speech in Parliament . Tessa was diagnosed with a terminal brain tumour . I was with her from her diagnosis through to writing the press release on the night she died . She finished her speech in the other place by saying : “ In the end , what gives a life meaning is not only how it is lived , but how it draws to a close . ”—[Official Report , House of Lords , 25 January 2018 ; Vol . 788 , c. 1170 . ] I sincerely believe that . St Christopher ’s hospice gives meaning to life as it draws to a close . It does so by taking a holistic approach ; it cares for a patient ’s physical , spiritual and psychological wellbeing . I have seen at first hand the intimate bonds and relationships established between staff , volunteers , patients and families . The hospice is one of the largest providers of palliative care education in the world . For all those reasons , we in Beckenham and Penge all support St Christopher ’s hospice , which is a huge part of our community . I was fundraising for the hospice long before I became an MP , and I continue to do so . People help in lots of different ways , and I want to give a special mention to Penge Fest , which is south - east London ’s answer to Oktoberfest . Local businesses such as Brewery , the Three Hounds and Designer Drapes , organisations including Friends of Cator Park and Penge business improvement district , and many more came together with local residents for a day of fun and fundraising that included an oompah band . The event brought Penge high street to a standstill last summer . We will continue to fundraise for St Christopher ’s hospice , but we should not have to do so to pay for the basics . Supporting our hospices benefits everyone , from the NHS to patients , and that is why I welcome the Government ’s announcement , just before Christmas , of an extra £ 100 million in hospice funding through the extension of children ’s hospice grants . That will ease the strain on hospices and benefit patients , as well as the wider health and care systems . However , hospices still face pressures , including increased demand for services , the rising cost of provision and discrepancies in funding across the country , which many Members have mentioned this evening . That is why , as the Minister recognises , hospices must be a key part of the Government ’s plan to shift care into the community , including through the provision of at - home care services . That can ease the acute pressures on the NHS . I invite the Minister to visit St Christopher ’s to see its fantastic work for himself , and to discuss the role of hospices in the Government ’s commitment to ensuring that every person has access to high - quality end of life care . I thank the hon . Member for Wimbledon again for securing today ’s debate , and the Government for the vital work that they are undertaking on this important issue . Hospices in Devon were already struggling before the Government ’s Budget last autumn , which introduced a hike in employers ’ national insurance . To talk first about the national picture , we have heard that a third of funding for hospices tends to come from the state , through the NHS . However , in Devon , it is less than a fifth . For Hospicare , a charity based in Exeter , the figure is 18 % , while for Seton Hospice at Home and Sidmouth Hospice at Home , the figure is 0 % ; they do not receive any funding at all from NHS Devon . Last year , I got together with Ben Bradshaw and Simon Jupp , the former MPs for Exeter and for East Devon . We put aside our political differences — Simon Jupp and I were contesting the seat of Honiton and Sidmouth at the time — wrote to the chair of NHS Devon , the brilliant Sarah Wollaston , and secured an extra £ 500,000 for hospice care in Devon . None the less , the charity Hospicare still has a deficit of £ 2.5 million per year . Following the national insurance announcement last autumn , The Guardian reported in mid - November that Whitehall was considering options to relieve the financial pressure on hospices . It suggested that civil servants were weighing up the possibilities of offsetting the NI rise , funding hospice nursing staff directly , or setting up a “ direct funding pot ” for hospices . Following the announcement on 19 December and the Christmas gift of capital funding for hospices , it seems that the Government chose the direct funding pot for hospices . The problem with the additional capital funding is that a lot of hospices do not have physical buildings . They do not have infrastructure . They provide nursing services and hospice at home , so they can not simply offset day - to - day spending with that capital spending . They are completely missing out , and that is the experience for Seaton hospice at home and Sidmouth hospice at home services in my east Devon constituency . In conclusion , these charities step in where the NHS does not . Providing care is central to the Government ’s vision of shifting treatment from hospitals to communities , yet the current trajectory seems to be forcing patients back into overstretched , acute hospitals .