The Minister raises the important issue of the cost of living . Given the dire economic impacts of Brexit , including food inflation being eight times higher than it would otherwise have been , and the costs of leaving the European Union amounting to £ 1 million an hour in 2022 , according to data from the Office for National Statistics , does he agree with me that it makes total economic sense for the UK and the people in it to use next week ’s summit to start discussions with the EU on what the process of rejoining might be , and the timings for that ? Many people may still be finding things a little bit gloomy and challenging as a result of the mess left by the previous Government , as I am after 10 months of being a Member of Parliament , but today I am incredibly heartened . It is probably the happiest day I have spent in the House yet , because we have a real opportunity to be hopeful and positive about the future of this country . The ideology and chaos that have caused so much damage , with the Conservative Government running frit from the Reform party , have now given way to a party that is pragmatic and has proven itself to be competent . I would love at this stage to congratulate the Government on their tremendous securing of trade deals with India and the USA . I am looking forward to the hat - trick , where we secure a trade deal with the European Union that is even bigger and better than either of those two , and all in the British interest . What is absolutely clear to me — everybody knows this in the Labour party and it runs through everything the Prime Minister has said — is that this country needs growth . Over the last 14 years , services have been decimated . Every time the new Government open a cupboard , we find it bare . We have to rebuild our public services , and the swiftest way to get growth in the economy is by having a good trade deal with the European Union . Nothing will guarantee swifter growth for the economy . I find it very hard to take anything that the Conservatives say with any degree of seriousness . What is their explanation for why , after 14 years , public services are on their knees and we have seen a collapse in the economy ? We even heard a Conservative Front Bencher , the hon . Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , say that there has been growth since leaving the European Union despite Brexit — even the Conservatives admit that it was a disaster . Nothing will deliver the growth that this country needs faster than signing a good deal with the European Union , slashing red tape and reducing regulation with the biggest market on our doorstep . Opening up markets , kick - starting growth , boosting exports and investments and reducing prices at home — this prize would be welcomed by anyone who is not a crazy ideologue . We on the Government side are not crazy ideologues or prisoners of our past — or of a television programme from the past . The actions that the Conservatives took while in government have damaged the British people . Businesses across the country , and in Chelsea and Fulham , want us to get a good deal from the European Union . People in my constituency do not want us to rejoin the EU , and I am not talking about rejoining . They would like us still to be in it , and they think it has done them damage . The importer of wine in my constituency who has to pay £ 160 for every consignment he now brings in would like us still to be in the EU and to not have to face that . But they do not want us to spend the next five years renegotiating the deal . Oh , it was sarcasm . As I was saying , I am very pleased , as many are , with the Government for being cool - headed and having a common - sense approach . We are going to reset our relationship with the European Union and put Britain first . Putting Britain first has to also mean putting our young people first , so I am excited by the opportunity for young people in my constituency and every constituency to take advantage of a time - limited , controlled visa - based youth system , which we already have with a dozen countries . I can tell the right hon . Gentleman what people in Chelsea and Fulham really want . They do not want a Prime Minister like the last one — a business Prime Minister — who said that we would level up to help people across the country but then did nothing about it . What they want is a Prime Minister who will invest in increasing skills and apprenticeships right across the country , as ours said yesterday that he will . That is what we need , and that is what we are getting now . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill German Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R. Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis Cocking John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden David Simmonds