I thank the hon . Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) for his excellent and very emotive maiden speech . I welcome you to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . Thank you for calling me to speak in this important debate . Above all , I thank the people of Harlow . It is a diverse constituency that includes not only Harlow but the villages of Roydon , Nazeing , Sheering and , following the recent boundary review , Hatfield Heath , Hatfield Broad Oak and too many others to name . I thank everybody for giving me the incredible opportunity to serve as their Member of Parliament . The new Prime Minister used the word “ service ” throughout the election campaign , and he has used it in this Chamber . In fact , the Leader of the Opposition even used it in his opening remarks on the Humble Address . Harlow is a constituency that demands and deserves the utmost service from its Members of Parliament , and in my direct predecessor , Robert Halfon , it had an MP who constantly championed and worked hard for the constituency . I genuinely thank him for his service . Likewise , his predecessor , Bill Rammell , who is a good friend and a mentor of mine , is still remembered fondly on the doorstep by residents he has supported . Both of them have shown how to persevere in the face of obstacles and beat the odds . Although my story is far more humble , I hope I can live up to the high expectations that they have both set . I also thank Bill ’s predecessor , Jerry Hayes , who believed in the importance of public scrutiny . Finally , I pay tribute to the late Stan Newens . I got to know Stan quite well in his later years , because all our Co - operative party meetings were held at his house . If anyone enjoys a trip back in time through literature , I would recommend a visit . At the end of every Co - op meeting , Stan would come over to me and whisper into my ear , “ You ’ll be an MP one day . ” Stan , I did not believe it at the time , but it turns out that you were right . My background is one of service . I spent 15 years as a secondary school maths teacher , and more recently I worked for a charity in Harlow called Streets2Homes , which supports homeless people , and for Action for Family Carers , which supports unpaid carers , particularly those who are young . A while ago , I had a conversation with the leader of the Liberal Democrats , the right hon . Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , about his excellent contribution to the report on young carers . I also pay tribute to Razed Roof , a wonderful charity of which I am a trustee . It is an inclusive theatre company , and I have to say a big hello to Simon . Like many Members , my experiences have shaped my politics and my interest in politics , but my priorities are also shaped by the constituency of Harlow . Many Members will know that Harlow is a post - war new town , designed by Sir Frederick Gibberd . Sir Frederick designed Harlow to be a place of community ; every community has its own shopping area , playground and green spaces . A local historian described Harlow as being designed — excuse me for this , Madam Deputy Speaker — on socialist principles . It is a place where people can see a Barbara Hepworth or a Rodin while just walking down the street . That sense of community was put to the test during the pandemic , when we saw dark times not only in this country but across the entire world . I am proud to report to everybody in this House that during those dark times , Harlow ’s community stepped up ; they passed the test . They supported the most vulnerable people across our town and community . Perhaps that is no surprise , given that our town invented the fibre optic cable , and is the home of Harlow college and the birthplace of Rupert Grint — I have no idea why I put those things in that order . Apparently , Harlow has the lowest density of pubs per head of population . That is okay , though , because there is one five minutes ’ staggering distance from my house . It is the convention to talk about a non - controversial issue in one ’s maiden speech . That is tricky when you find yourself in a room with people with opposing views . I thought that I might talk about football , but I am a Leeds supporter , and my hon . Friends the Members for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , and for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , went before me , so I think I shall leave the subject alone , but I am sure this House will join me in congratulating the mighty Harlow Town on their league cup victory last season — let us not worry about what league it was . Instead , I decided to talk about young carers , a subject very close to my heart . As I have said , I was a secondary school maths teacher for 15 years . In one school , I had a boy in my form — I shall call him George , but that is not his real name . He was a lovely lad . Every Friday , it was my job to check that pupils had got their homework planner signed by their parents , so that we knew that the pupils were doing their homework and recording it properly , but George never got his planner signed . Anyone who knew me as a teacher would say that I was a bit of a softie , so I let it go , but over time , I had to keep him back at break time and lunch time because his planner was not getting signed . He never argued . He just turned up , did his five - minute detention and went on his way . It was only at parents ’ evening that I found out that both George ’s parents were severely physically disabled , and that George and his sister were young carers . I felt terrible . It was probably that experience that inspired me to become more involved in supporting young carers . The solution to George ’s issue was really easy . George , like many young carers , did not want to be treated differently . What we did was say , “ Your sister can sign your planner for you . As long as your sister gets it signed , there is no problem . ” Lo and behold , he got it signed by his sister — he got a detention if he did not . He was happy with that . I am pleased to say that that story is about 10 years old . I think we have progressed quite well in our recognition and understanding of young carers . I thank Members from across the House , the leader of the Liberal Democrats and my own Prime Minister for bringing their experiences to this House . In a recent school census , 72 % of schools said that they did not have any young carers . I can tell Members that , from my experience of supporting young carers , that can not be correct . It is predicted that there are more than 10,000 young carers in Essex alone . Essex county council has identified roughly 3,700 of them , so there is a huge number of young carers whom we have not identified , let alone got the resource in place for . I would like to end my maiden speech on a positive : I ask the House to join me in thanking all the young carers I have worked with , and all young carers across Great Britain and Northern Ireland , for the incredible job that they do . Many of them do not even think of themselves as being young carers because it is just what they do — they help a loved one — but I want to put it on record that , to me , they are absolute heroes .