The investment summit announced a lot of investment for which the Conservative Government were actually responsible . Let us wait and see . The Budget was yesterday . Businesses will have to look very carefully at their plans , but I do not expect them to do so in a mere few hours . I am happy to have this debate with the hon . Gentleman again in a few weeks ’ time once we have seen the impact of the measures that have been announced . There are two specific measures that I want to touch on because they have a particular impact on my constituents . One of them , which has been mentioned a number of times in this debate , is the removal of agricultural property relief . The Country Land and Business Association estimates that that will affect 70,000 businesses . Family farms in particular will feel the impact worse . It is hardly surprising that the president of the National Farmers ’ Union has said : “ This Budget not only threatens family farms but will also make producing food more expensive … The shameless breaking of those promises on Agricultural Property Relief will snatch away much of the next generation ’s ability to carry on producing British food , plan for the future and shepherd the environment . ” This is a measure that the Labour party said it would not introduce , but it has broken that promise and is now proposing to introduce it , with enormous damage not just to farmers but to food security and our environment . The second measure that I would like to touch on—[Interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I see you have acquired Speaker ’s cough . I will heed your warning , but I want to mention VAT on private schools . In my constituency I have three small independent schools : Heathcote school in Danbury , Elm Green in Littleborough and Malden Court school . The parents who send their children there are not rich ; they make huge sacrifices . In Essex we are very fortunate to have really good grammar schools . Those parents make that sacrifice to help their children hopefully get into the grammars , but they will not be able to continue if there is 20 % increase in fees as a result of the imposition of VAT . They will withdraw their children and those schools will be threatened with closure . The consequence is that the children will need to be placed in state schools , which are already under huge pressure . My constituency is growing rapidly , and there is enormous pressure on schools . This will simply make it worse . This policy is simply vindictive and will do enormous damage . Very quickly , I note that the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) has come back into the Chamber , and she would be disappointed if I did not say that I welcome the hospital building programme in the Budget and the announcement of new money . However , once again I reiterate that a hospital in my constituency is threatened with closure . We have been promised a new one for 30 years or more , under both my Government and the Government before that . She was good enough to see my right hon . Friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and me the other day , so that we could make the case . If she does hold this money , I hope that she might be able to direct some of it to my constituency . This Budget is one of the worst I have heard in all my time in this place . It will do enormous damage . I am grateful for this opportunity to put that on the record .