I start by paying tribute to the families who are in the Gallery and to those who are not . As the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) said , I have some personal experience in these matters , and I know just how painful it is to have a loved one detained overseas , often for long periods and with great uncertainty about next steps . I have met many of those who are in the Public Gallery . They are a tribute to their families , and I am endlessly in awe of the bravery , commitment and determination that they show . As the right hon . Gentleman mentioned , many of these cases have been going on for some time . I will start by providing context on the general situation . Several Members have made comments about trend lines ; I will offer data on the Foreign Office ’s response , as has been requested . I will set out Labour ’s position , and then I will turn briefly to some of the cases that have been raised . However , as was said by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , many families do not wish to have their case named in this House , and many of them are not represented in the Public Gallery . That does not make them any less of a priority for me , the rest of the ministerial team , or the Foreign Office . I join the shadow Minister — the right hon . Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) — and many other right hon . and hon . Members in paying tribute to consular teams for their work . The right hon . Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) said that many Foreign Office staff are the best and brightest , and that is certainly true for consular teams , who I am very happy to represent as the consular Minister , and to visit everywhere I go . The week before last , I was in Pakistan , where our staff deal with some of the most complex consular cases , as the House will know . They work 24/7 to ensure that people have what is often their only contact with the outside world once they have been detained , as many Members have said . I would not claim to be one of the best or brightest , but I am what the right hon . Member for New Forest East would probably call a specialist unit , given that during my time in the Foreign Office , I dealt with many such cases . Indeed , I worked with other nations , as many Members have encouraged the Government to do . It is of course desirable to look at other countries ’ systems . My right hon . Friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) mentioned the SPEHA system , with which I worked extensively . I can assure her that I talk to my American counterparts , including the special envoy , who I will see this weekend . Members seek consistency in our response to consular cases . They will recognise that what governs our ability to provide consular assistance is the Vienna convention , which mandates that we can not interfere in foreign legal systems ; we can only ensure that proper consular assistance is offered . Many Members have rightly highlighted the difficulties in identifying whether British nationals have had proper recourse to due process and their full rights . The Foreign Office remains focused on that question . We are assisting 1,400 British nationals overseas . Some of those cases are more straightforward ; some are considerably more complex . We provide assistance , both directly and through a partnership with Prisoners Abroad — a highly valued charity with which many Members will be familiar . It works to ensure not only that British nationals overseas are visited by the Foreign Office , but that they have access to essentials such as food and medication . Prisoners Abroad also supports the families of those detained abroad , a vital service that we will continue to support . We have long - running partnerships with non - governmental organisations such as Reprieve and the Death Penalty Project , which provide expertise in complex cases . I know that right hon . and hon . Members are familiar with the Foreign Office arrangements , so I will not dwell on them too much , but let me be clear about what a Labour Government will do differently and why . We will introduce a special envoy for complex consular cases , in part because we have heard from families , including those in the Public Gallery , about their experience of seeking Foreign Office support . We will introduce that envoy so that there is , as many Members have requested , a part of the Foreign Office with a particular focus on complex consular cases . We will also introduce a new right to consular assistance . I hope to return to the House shortly to set out more details on both provisions . The right hon . Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) rightly highlighted that we should be uneasy about the increasing global trend of trying to use British and other foreign nationals as diplomatic leverage . It is important to repeat that we will never accept British nationals being used as pawns or diplomatic leverage . We take a strong position on that , and will continue to do so . We will not haggle for British nationals , but will ensure that they have their proper rights , in accordance with the Vienna convention , and will do everything we can to support their family . I turn briefly to some of the cases that have been raised . I reiterate that I will not mention every case . There are many names that are burned into my mind , as Members would expect , and cases that we work on regularly that I will not mention now , but I will address those on which I have been particularly pressed for answers . I begin with the cases of Mr Cornelius and Mr Ridley . The family are above me in the Gallery . We will continue to provide support to them , but I reassure the House that I have now raised with the ruler of Dubai the request for clemency , and outlined the British Government ’s support for Mr Cornelius ’ pardon application . The previous Foreign Secretary did so , as was alluded to by the shadow Minister ; I thought it was important to provide clarification on that . I recognise that there has been unwelcome news in this case ; I will not go into further detail about that in this place , but we will continue to work on the case . I met Mr Cornelius ’s family recently , and I reassure the House that I have committed to continuing to meet them for as long as the two cases remain ongoing . Mr Lai ’s case , which was also raised , remains a priority for the British Government . We are closely monitoring his trial , and I can reassure the House that diplomats from our consulate general will continue to attend his court proceedings . As this House is aware , the Prime Minister raised the matter of Mr Lai with President Xi at the G20 summit , and the Foreign Secretary has raised it with his equivalent . The Minister for the Indo - Pacific has also raised this case with both the Chinese and Hong Kong authorities . We continue to call on the Hong Kong authorities to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release Mr Lai . I pay tribute to my hon . Friends the Members for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , and for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) , for raising the case of Mr Johal . We continue to press the Government of India for faster progress to resolve this matter . I recognise the diligent efforts of his brother , who I understand is in the Gallery , and the deep and profound frustration about this case . It must be resolved , and that resolution must include an investigation into Mr Johal ’s allegations of torture . I will return to this House later today to talk further about Mr el - Fattah ’s case . That case remains at the front of my mind and that of the Foreign Secretary . He met the family , who I understand are behind me in the Gallery , last week . The Prime Minister has raised the case with President Sisi ; the Foreign Secretary and I have both raised it with the Egyptian Foreign Minister ; and my right hon . Friend the Minister for Development raised it just this week , again with the Egyptian Foreign Minister . Mr el - Fattah ’s case is tragic . I am very mindful of the hunger strike of his mother , who I have met , and whose efforts have been mentioned by many hon . Members . We will continue to focus on Mr el - Fattah , and I look forward to returning to the House this afternoon to discuss his case further . On Emily Damari , a hostage held by Hamas and a British national , she and all the other UK nationals and people with UK links held by Hamas are very much on our mind . We continue to press for their immediate release , for humanitarian access to them , and for the medical assistance that we are sure they will require . I met their families this week , and they will remain a steadfast focus . I would also like to comment briefly on the case of Dr Ibadoghlu ; we have indeed raised this case with the authorities , including recently at the end of October . As the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green suggested , these are not easy cases . Many of them have been going on for some time , and the appointment of an envoy is important , but I reassure this House that I am the Minister responsible for consular affairs . It is not for officials to own these cases ; as the shadow Minister has made clear , that is for Ministers . That is very much the view that I and the Foreign Secretary take . I look forward to returning to the House to discuss some of these cases in more detail , and to tell Members about the measures that we will take . I regret that in our few months in Government , we have not yet seen positive progress on all these cases , and I note that many Members have referred to the negative trend in some of these areas . I reassure the House that we will continue to focus on this issue above all . As was said by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . Member for Bicester and Woodstock , the first duty of Government is to look after their people . There is no higher responsibility for me than serving British nationals , whatever corner of the world they are in .