What a pleasure it is to respond to the contribution of my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) this evening . I hope that we will be able to reflect on a huge success in our country . It is a wonderful thing for our communities to have cadets . I have seen them in my constituency , and they are an important part of the local fabric , supporting occasions from Remembrance Sunday to Armed Forces Day and beyond . We are lucky to have them . I pay particular tribute to the volunteers who make that possible . So many of our institutions have , I am afraid , suffered as a result of the pandemic , and it has been extremely difficult for them to get going again , yet cadets seem to have bounced back and be flourishing , and the reason is that there are people who are prepared to give up their time and shoulder a fair amount of inconvenience to serve their communities in that way . We all owe them a great deal . The benefits that our cadet programmes offer to young people and society as a whole are well known and well rehearsed . I agree wholeheartedly that the MOD - sponsored cadet forces provide brilliant opportunities for our young people . They have been catalogued by academics from the University of Northampton , to whom I am grateful for their rigorous appraisal , which gives scientific objectivity to what we all understand instinctively to be the case , namely that cadets are a force for good . Participation in cadets has been shown to build character , self - discipline and self - reliance . It improves teamworking , problem solving , leadership and social skills . It provides a boost for physical and mental health — benefits that I am sure my hon . Friend will know about from his time as a cadet , which he described so well . I have to say that my time was not quite as happy as his . I remember joining the air cadets briefly . I was told I was going to fly aircraft . After about two months , it dawned on me that that was not going to happen ; it would be marching up and down for as long as I could put up with it , which was not very long . I have to say that I parted company from the cadets much sooner than my hon . Friend , but there it is . I am sure it benefited me on some level . Headteachers of schools that have established cadet units report that their cadets have improved attendance and academic attainment , as well as behaviour and self - confidence . Some headteachers use cadets as a central part of their strategy to reduce exclusions . Cadet programmes are also a gateway to new skills , new qualifications , and even employment . They are also a valuable way of making young people aware of the further opportunities available in defence and defence - related industries , although , as my hon . Friend made clear , cadet forces are not meant to be recruiting tools . As our military footprint has shrunk , however , cadets have assumed an even more important role in at least providing some sort of presence in many communities where otherwise there would be none . They benefit the whole of society by building links between different communities , boosting social mobility , and strengthening young people ’s resilience to becoming involved in antisocial behaviour , criminality and even extremism . In short , joining the cadets is a springboard to success , as well as being a powerful engine for social mobility and levelling up . The cadet expansion programme is a joint Ministry of Defence and Department for Education initiative to expand cadet participation in schools . It has been a fantastic success since its launch by the then Prime Minister 12 years ago . By March 2015 , ahead of schedule , the Government reached their target of establishing 100 new combined cadet force units in state secondary schools in England . In November 2019 , again ahead of schedule , we reached our further target of establishing 500 new cadet units across the United Kingdom . Funded with £ 50 million from LIBOR fines , the expansion programme benefits many schools in less affluent areas . To give renewed impetus to the programme , the Government had by this time outlined a further aspiration to increase the number of cadets in school units to 60,000 by April 2024 . However , cadet units require a significant amount of personal commitment from school leaders and volunteers , and in spite of successes , about 50 of the units established since 2012 have failed , often as a result of changes to a school ’s leadership or priorities . That is a pity , but it in no way detracts from the leadership and drive of school teams that have advanced the cadet programme , to whom I pay tribute . As we approach April 2024 , although cadet numbers in schools have increased by 15 % since April 2020 to more than 54,000 , it is clear that covid has had an impact on this as on so much of our national life , and that we will not reach our 60,000 aspiration within the challenging timeframe that we set . However , it is not only the direct impact of the pandemic that has slowed progress . In addition to cadet activities being halted or limited by covid restrictions , participation has been affected by the resulting change in school priorities , with many understandably reorientating themselves from extra - curricular activities to prioritise catching up on lost learning . Given this context , the fact that we have already achieved 90 % of our ambition to have 60,000 cadets in schools is a great credit to every individual and school involved in our expansion programme . We have also made progress on a number of other fronts to provide the greatest support for school cadet units that we can . In the last year , we have developed a Combined Cadet Force engagement and communication framework . We have worked with the single - service cadet forces to improve the delivery model , and have extended funding for regional school cadet expansion officers . According to a report produced by academics at the University of Northampton , more than 91 % of headteachers surveyed considered their cadet units to be a good investment for their schools , and a whopping 98.9 % reported an improvement in the resilience of participants . Most recent estimates have calculated the cost of participation at £ 836 per cadet , and I call that a fantastic value - for - money investment in their future , our future , and the future of our country . However , Members do not have to take my word for it : the academics who conducted the study concluded that “ school based cadet units are delivering excellent value for money ” — as well they should , given that the estimate of the Institute for Public Policy Research is that the cost of just one school exclusion is £ 392,000 .