What assessment he has made of the impact of raising the high - income child benefit charge threshold on household incomes . These changes are welcome , and they mean that more Lincoln families will receive more support from the Government , as I told the Minister in Lincoln on Friday . Will my hon . Friend confirm when the formal consultation on basing child benefit on household income rather than on individual income will commence , if the civil servants in the Treasury will let him do it ? I rise to speak to new clauses 4 to 7 and amendment 1 . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ’ Financial Interests in relation to BPI . Let me at the outset say what a particular pleasure it was to listen to the maiden speech of my new hon . Friend , the hon . Member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) . His description of his constituents ’ comments to him during the by - election will chime with all on the Opposition side of the House . It is clear that he will be an asset to the House , and I think it is fair to say that south London ’s loss is undoubtedly Kingswood ’s gain . We support accession to the CPTPP because of its geopolitical benefits and the benefits to trade , relatively limited thought they are set to be . Given that the Conservative party has delivered a recession , a cost of living crisis and the worst growth rate in the G7 , any uptick in trade and ultimately growth , however limited , would be welcome . There remain , however , a series of concerns about the Government ’s approach to the CPTPP and trade deals . Our amendments and new clauses seek to address the weak arrangements for parliamentary scrutiny of trade deals ; the growing concern about the investor - state dispute settlement ; and issues around performers ’ rights , environmental , animal welfare and food standards , and the help that businesses will be offered to exploit the benefits , however limited , of this deal . On new clause 1 , I recognise the concerns articulated by the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , which were echoed by the right hon . Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , and I am sympathetic to the former ’s call for an enhanced role for Parliament . I am also sympathetic to new clause 11 from the hon . Member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , under which Parliament would require an assessment of the impact of any new country ’s joining the CPTPP . However , I think we need to go further than both those new clauses do . Labour ’s new clause 4 would require Ministers to publish such an impact assessment in Parliament and to give the House a vote on any new country joining the CPTPP . Given the security issues , the impact on particular sectors of the economy and on jobs in the UK , as well as the opportunities that an accession could bring , the British people surely have a right to expect this House to consider the merits , or lack of merit , of any new accessions to the CPTPP . During the Lords debate , the Minister said that he thought that a new state joining CPTPP would trigger the CRaG process in the UK , but the CRaG process , as increasing numbers of Members across the House have largely come to agree , is clearly not fit for purpose ; PACAC is the latest Committee to make that clear , in its recent report . New clause 4 provides the opportunity to reform part of that process . Let me refer to what was said by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . Friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , and by the hon . Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and my hon . Friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . We were promised by the Secretary of State and by the Minister in Committee that there would be a debate under the CRaG process , as opposed to there being just this small implementing Bill . We now know that the debate will not happen , so that is another broken promise on trade . The impact of new countries joining the CPTPP will vary , but could be considerable in certain situations . It is only right that this country expects the House to consider those impacts carefully . I hope that the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green , and the hon . Members for Totnes , and for Chesham and Amersham , can be persuaded to support our new clause . It would achieve what they want in practice and go further . With the leave of the House , we will press our new clause to a vote . On new clause 5 , I hesitate to damage the reputation of my hon . Friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and my right hon . Friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who made excellent speeches on the ISDS . Over the past 10 years , the marked acceleration in usage of the ISDS by large , litigious corporations to challenge Governments ’ climate - related or other environmental decisions has prompted concern at the highest levels in the US , in European capitals and at the UN , so much so that Governments across the world are increasingly excluding or revoking the ISDS provisions . The problem with the ISDS is that it is secretive ; it avoids perfectly effective domestic public legal systems ; it discriminates against small and medium - sized businesses ; it often prevents the voice of those with a genuine interest in the decisions from being heard ; and it holds back environmental and other progressive public policy changes . Strikingly , the OECD could find no sustained evidence that the ISDS was key to securing and maintaining business investment . The Nuffield Trust ’s briefing for today ’s debate stated that the ISDS could enable companies to challenge some health regulations and NHS policies . The US , Canada and the European Union have all taken steps to revoke the ISDS provisions in some of their major treaties . The average amount — this is just the published cases — that Governments have been forced to pay , from taxpayers ’ money , is about $ 600 million for climate cases . It seems even more noteworthy that the UN Secretary - General ’s special rapporteur on environment and human rights expressed concern just last September that the ISDS was a significant threat to the net zero transition , the Paris agreement and tackling climate change . Some in government clearly share some of those concerns , as they wanted to exclude the ISDS from the bilateral trade deal with Canada , and supported its abolition from trade with the European Union . The Minister was somewhat evasive in Committee . Initially , he tried to duck questions on why the Government wanted to exclude the ISDS from a bilateral trade agreement with Canada but were quite happy to leave it in the CPTPP for Canadian investors to use . Given that Ministers have signed side letters with Australia and New Zealand to disapply the ISDS between our countries in the CPTPP , it seems bizarre that they have not attempted a similar approach with Canada . Just after Committee , the Government confirmed that they were pulling out of the energy charter treaty , in which ISDS arrangements play a major role , saying that it does not fit with net zero ambitions . The Minister might want to try again to explain why it is essential that we remain committed to the ISDS elements of the CPTPP . It is time for a clear - eyed assessment of the risk that the ISDS poses to our interests . With the leave of the House , the Opposition will press new clause 5 to a vote . There continue to be significant concerns about the environmental impact of accession to the CPTPP , and the impact on food standards and on animal welfare . The CPTPP covers two of the 11 deforestation fronts expected to account for 80 % of deforestation by 2030 . A range of environmental groups are very concerned that when the UK joins the CPTPP , preferential access to our markets will be created as a result of the removal of tariffs on palm oil . That could increase demand for products from threatened zones and exacerbate the risk of further deforestation . Ministers still have not published — never mind presented to this House — deforestation due diligence legislation under section 17 of the Environment Act 2021 , so it is difficult to accept Ministers ’ claims that they are fully committed to our climate change targets , and to protecting important sources of global biodiversity . On food standards , deep concerns remain that , despite their protestations , the deals that Ministers have negotiated , including the CPTPP , will allow into the UK ever more food produced to lower standards , particularly animal welfare standards . The whole House will remember the words of the former Environment Secretary , the right hon . Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who told the House that the Minister and his colleagues had given away “ far too much for far too little”.—[Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c. 424 . ] when they negotiated the UK - Australia free trade agreement . The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the National Farmers Union , in particular , have raised concerns that new tariffs negotiated with Mexico and Canada will leave farmers in the UK much more vulnerable to imported eggs , pork and chicken that are produced to standards that would be illegal in the UK . The Pesticide Action Network UK raised concerns acknowledged by the Trade and Agriculture Commission — concerns also raised by an hon . Friend behind me — that more food produced using pesticides banned in the UK will be imported into the UK New clause 7 would require Ministers to publish a plan to help businesses benefit from the new trade deal . It is striking that the Office for Budget Responsibility , in its recent Budget analysis , made it clear that trade will make a negligible contribution to growth through to 2028 under Conservative party plans . We remember that the Secretary of State was appointed and within weeks exports began to fall . Then the Minister of State was reappointed to the brief and exports fell even further . Who could possibly have expected that to happen ? Ministers have cut funding for trade missions led by business groups themselves , and cut funding for small and medium - sized enterprises to get to trade shows to open up new markets for themselves . The Government website for helping exporters is so poor that some firms use other countries ’ websites to find where there might be opportunities . Ministers could and should be doing a whole lot better to support our businesses to take advantage of any benefits in trade deals . New clause 7 would require Ministers , once the accession process is over , to publish a clear implementation plan to help businesses benefit from CPTPP . Preference utilisation rates for other trade deals certainly do not offer any grounds for complacency . Given that exports under the Conservative party have performed worse than every other member of the G7 bar Japan over the last decade , it was striking that the Chancellor had nothing to offer exporters and , strikingly , no mention of any plan to help British business exploit our coming membership of CPTPP in his recent Budget . For those reasons , I am sympathetic to new clause 10 , tabled by the hon . Member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . On amendment 1 , as the Minister knows and as the hon . Member for Chesham and Amersham set out , there remain serious doubts from industry about whether the changes the Bill allows for in relation to the UK ’s copyright framework are actually required . We have had different explanations for the changes from Ministers . At one point they were due to the CPTPP . On another occasion they were being made to comply with other international treaty obligations signed decades ago . What is clear is that the changes could have a significant impact on the ability of the music industry to support new British artists . Because of those concerns , Ministers were forced to bring forward a consultation on the changes . The consultation will not finish until after the Bill has completed its passage through both Houses . In the worst - case scenario estimated by the Intellectual Property Office , the changes could cost over £ 100 million . It is likely that Royal Assent will have been granted before we know the outcome of the consultation process . Ministers were forced to bring this issue forward , which I have to say is just the latest example of , at best , a half - hearted approach to the scrutiny of trade issues by those on the Treasury Bench .