I am grateful to be making my maiden speech in this debate on the Great British Energy Bill . Given my constituency ’s links to energy production at the Morecambe Bay gasfields , it is in a unique position to be a leader in clean green energy with offshore wind and tidal power . Spirit Energy has ambitious plans to convert our depleted gasfields and onshore terminal into a world - class carbon storage cluster . This project will support our net zero ambitions , along with providing thousands of highly skilled green jobs in Cumbria , supporting the transition from oil and gas . The plan will bring a multi - billion - pound investment locally , promoting growth and further regional investment that will assist us in making our local economy more sustainable . I congratulate all those who have made their maiden speeches today , including my hon . Friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . It has been inspiring to witness so many incredible maiden speeches over the past few months . It has been fascinating to hear those gems of information about people and places , as Members speak about their constituencies with such passion , and the many varied paths and often moving stories that have brought them to this House . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Simon Fell . We disagreed on many matters over the years , but his commitment to BAE Systems and the nuclear deterrent was clear and something on which we could both very much agree . His kind and generous advice during the election campaign was gratefully received and I would encourage everyone in this House to behave in a similar manner . I wish my grandma could be here to see me today , as she would , like the rest of my family , be bursting with pride . She would no doubt remind me of the time that she took me to the cinema when I was a toddler . I had decided to make myself comfortable , so I kicked off my shoes to watch the film . Part way through , I climbed off my seat and , with instant regret , found that I had stepped on an ice cream lid . The cold and sticky ice cream quickly seeped through my socks . So angry was four - year - old me that I turned to face the whole audience , and , with hands on hips , loudly demanded to know who was responsible , declaring that whoever it was should come and pick it up . My grandma was understandably mortified by my outburst during the film , and it was 20 years before she confessed that it was her ice cream lid . I could not be prouder to be not only the first local to be elected as MP for Barrow and Furness , but the first ever female to hold this very privileged position . I started my career in banking way back in the ’ 80s , but found very quickly that my passion would take me elsewhere . With an insuppressible drive to call out injustice , my mouth soon ensured that I was elected as our union rep , and within a couple of years I was asked to take on that role for the north - west region . I will never forget how I felt when my manager took me aside to tell me that , if I accepted that responsibility , I could kiss goodbye to my career in banking . I did not need time to think about it ; I took the job . There is nothing in this world more likely to make me dig my heels in than a bully . My constituency is well known for many things . We have been world leaders in ironworks , with the founders of Barrow exporting railways to the world . They understood that , for a secure economy , we needed more than one industry and created the jute manufacturing business that became a world leader in its own right . The ironworks eventually became a shipyard where we now build our nuclear deterrent , the most complex piece of engineering on the planet , and we are the only place in the UK that is capable of doing that . We protect our nation — a source of great pride to us locally — with the industry that is the backbone of the economy in Barrow and Furness , and many other towns across the UK , in a supply chain of tens of thousands of jobs . Our coastline is home to many areas of natural beauty and protected habitats — from Ravenglass , where people can explore on a mini steam train , visit Muncaster Castle with its rich history and birds of prey , or enjoy the truly unspoiled area that is the western Lake district ; all the way down to Walney Island nature reserve , with its adorable grey seals and stunning views , not least of which is its view of the island of Piel , which hosts its own king no less . Tradition holds that the landlord of the sole pub , while sitting in an ancient chair , carrying a sword and wearing a helmet , is crowned by the pouring of alcohol over their head . Shout out to John Murphy , our local historian and former Mayor of Burrow , for his fantastic walking tours to Piel . Morecambe bay and the Duddon estuaries are our playgrounds , and my hometown of Ulverston , which earlier this year was reported to be one of the most vibrant towns in the UK , is known as the festival town , and has well and truly earned its title . There are festivals for everything from walking , Walkfest , to printing , Printfest ; comedy and music , with a tenuous link to Laurel and Hardy ’s “ Another Fine Mess ” , Finefest ; and my favourite , the one I help to organise each year , Dickensian . The hashtag for that one made headline news in Japan , and I will leave Members to work it out for themselves . [ Laughter . ] I have been incredibly lucky that I was able to take time out when my children were little and build a business on the high street with my sister . Those 20 years , through recessions , online shopping , out - of - town retail and covid , were a steep learning curve , but one that I would not change for the world . Our high streets are one of my passions . They are the very heart of our communities and Britain ’s biggest employer — worthy of nurturing , protecting and revitalising . I very much welcome our plans and the opportunity to support them in this Government . We have many famous sons and daughters from Barrow and Furness . Stan Laurel , comedy giant and half of the duo Laurel and Hardy , was born in Ulverston . My apologies to my hon . Friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) ; his town has been trying to claim Stan Laurel for years , but he was definitely an Ulverston lad . Dalton , the ancient capital of Furness , was birthplace and early home of famous painter George Romney , and Tommy Johnson , the third - highest goal scorer for Man City , who made five appearances for England and scored in every single match . That might be a bit too far back for most to remember , because he was born in 1901 , but other Barrow - born football heroes are Emlyn Hughes , whose statue now graces Abbey Road in Barrow , and Georgia Stanway , who I believe is now overdue her own statue for her achievements in the England squad . While we are on football , I have to say good luck to the Barrow Bluebirds in their upcoming match against Chelsea — you have great football genes on your side , so let ’s have it ! Sir John Barrow , famous son of Ulverston , became the second secretary to the admiralty — to you and me , that is in charge of the Navy . He wrote the report that became the basis for what we now know as the mutiny on the Bounty . He was the last man to shake Lord Nelson ’s hand as he departed on HMS Victory for Trafalgar , and was a great promotor of Arctic voyages of discovery , with many places around the globe now named after him , including Barrow strait , Cape Barrow and Point Barrow in Alaska , but oddly not Barrow - in - Furness . I have fought long and hard to give a voice to our residents as their councillor and mayor , and I have often been angered by decisions that cost our communities dearly . Next week , our Lib Dem council will decide the fate of one of the busiest libraries in Cumbria — the last remaining community space that is free to use , where many community groups ensure that a vital safety net is provided , and where no matter what someone ’s background or financial position is , they have a safe place to learn and achieve . I hope that the council will listen to the 3,000 - plus people who have signed a petition to save it , and decide to work with me and local businesses to secure its future . Our local community groups and third sector organisations have proved vital in recent years , and I am a strong believer that most problems have a solution at grassroots level , through community groups such as the Roxy Collective , Drop Zone , Women ’s Community Matters , the Ulverston Resilience Group , Community Solutions , and Furness Refugee Support to name just a few — or Love Barrow Families , whose work is so life changing for some that they return as volunteers to give that same gift to others . In my role as MP for Barrow and Furness , I want to give their voice more power . I want to bring community groups together with residents and businesses , big and small , as that is how community works at its best , for the betterment of everyone in it . Many MPs make unique claims in their maiden speeches . If I was a gambling woman , I would bet that I am the only MP to be married to a lighthouse keeper — I am hoping the weather is okay back home , because he is sat in the Gallery now . [ Laughter . ] My better half is the senior lighthouse keeper in charge of the Sir John Barrow monument , a copy of the Eddystone lighthouse that stands on top of Hoad hill and welcomes the people of Furness home . Finally , I encourage all hon . Members to come and visit Barrow and Furness — but with a fair warning that several of them will , of course , feel obliged to return to this Chamber and correct the record on which is the best constituency .