Twenty - one years ago , a human rights barrister stood in court and defended an activist who broke into RAF Fairford trying to disable a bomber to prevent war crimes in Iraq . That became a landmark case in lawful , non - violent direct action against an illegal war . That barrister is now our Prime Minister , Sir Keir Starmer KC . He argued that it was not terrorism but conscience . Fast - forward to 20 June 2025 : two Palestine Action activists entered RAF Brize Norton and sprayed red paint — red paint , not fire — on aircraft linked to surveillance flights over Gaza . Instead of prosecuting them for criminal damage , which is what normally is done , the Home Secretary is using the Terrorism Act 2000 to proscribe Palestine Action as a terrorist group . This is an unprecedented and dangerous overreach of the state . Never before in Britain has it been a crime to simply support a group . This order lumps a non - violent network of students , nurses , teachers , firefighters and peace campaigners — ordinary people , my constituents and yours — with neo - Nazi militias and mass - casualty cults . Palestine Action ’s real crime is , we have to be clear , shutting down Elbit Systems sites that arm the Israeli military ; its true offence is being audacious enough to expose the blood - soaked ties between this Government and the genocidal Israeli apartheid state and its war machine . Let us be clear : to equate a spray can of paint with a suicide bomb is not just absurd ; it is grotesque . It is a deliberate distortion of the law to chill dissent , criminalise solidarity and suppress the truth . Amnesty international , Liberty , over 266 senior lawyers and UN special rapporteurs have all opposed these draconian measures . Even at this late stage , the order should be withdrawn . Under this order , anyone expressing moral support for a proscribed group could face 14 years in prison . That includes wearing a badge , wearing a T - shirt , sharing a post or calling for de - proscription . And journalists have no exemption either : there is no legal protection for reporting favourably , even factually , about Palestine Action . By this weekend , millions of people , including many of our constituents , could be placed under these sweeping restrictions . Let us not forget what is happening in Gaza , where the real crimes are being ignored : hospitals bombed , children starved , and tens of thousands of people killed . Palestinian children now suffer more amputations per capita than children anywhere else on earth . Israel is on trial for genocide at the International Court of Justice and the Israeli Prime Minister faces an International Criminal Court arrest warrant , yet the Government ’s response is to criminalise solidarity and to continue exporting lethal F-35 jets that are decimating Gaza . We also have to understand the history of this country and what built our democracy : the tradition of civil disobedience that includes the suffragettes , without whom I would not have the vote , let alone the privilege of being here as an MP . Even those who oppose Palestine Action ’s tactics must recognise the vast gulf between criminal damage and terrorism . If this order passes , what and who is next — climate protesters , striking workers , feminists in the street ? Already we have seen a wider crackdown on our civil liberties — musicians censored , journalists arrested , and demonstrators , including MPs sitting here , harassed — and now this Government want to use anti - terror laws to make peaceful protest itself a crime . If our democratic institutions functioned as they should , none of this would be necessary . To conclude , if this proscription passes , as it will , we have to understand that no campaign will be safe tomorrow . We have to recognise that this will go down as a dark day in our country ’s history and one that will be remembered : people will ask , “ Which side were you on ? ” and I stand with the millions of people who oppose genocide , because I am one of them . I oppose the blood - soaked hands of this Government trying to silence us . So I say this loudly and proudly on Wednesday 2 July 2025 : we are — Order . We are all Palestine —