I thank the hon . Member for his intervention and , indeed , for his contribution to the debate . That is not a commitment that we are in a position to make ; it would be for the new Leader of the Opposition to nominate for peerages those whom he or she wished to nominate , in the normal way . A number of Members , including the hon . Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , talked about wider reform of the House of Lords . As set out in the Labour manifesto , the Government are committed to replacing the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that is more representative of the regions and nations of the UK . That would be a major change to the functioning of our Parliament and our constitution , so it is right that it should be preceded by a significant period of detailed consideration and consultation . The Government will set out further details of that process in due course , including how we will seek the British public ’s input on how politics can best serve them . However , that should not prevent progress on other important and long - overdue reforms , including through this Bill and other initial reforms , to help deliver a smaller and more active second Chamber . The Government ’s manifesto made it clear that the measures in the Bill would be introduced to implement immediate reform , which is what we are setting out to do . The hon . Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , too , talked about wider reform . I thank her for taking the time to meet me and the Minister for the Cabinet Office to talk about her concerns and her ambitions for further reform ; I am grateful for that engagement . I want to stress that this is a new Government with a fresh mandate and a set of manifesto pledges that we are committed to implement . This Bill delivers immediate reform . As my right hon . Friend mentioned in his opening speech , part of the reason why there has been no further progress over the last 25 years is the argument that nothing should be done until everything has been done . We firmly believe in taking this first step as a matter of priority , and it is right that we take time to consider how best to implement other manifesto commitments that the Government have previously set out . We will engage with peers and the public , where appropriate , over the course of this Parliament and update the House in due course . The hon . Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) made a point about the commencement of the Bill . The Bill will remove the remaining hereditary peers at the end of the parliamentary Session in which it receives Royal Assent . The timing of the Bill ’s implementation ensures that the business of the House will not be undermined by the sudden departure of a number of hereditary peers in the middle of the Session . Subject to the timely progress of the Bill , we will give notice to existing hereditary peers to give valedictory speeches . The hon . Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) raised some concerns about the balance in the House of Lords if this Bill is passed . It is important to point out that no political party has held an overall majority in the House of Lords in recent times , and this Bill will not change that . The role of the Lords is to scrutinise and hold the Government to account in the context of the primacy of the House of Commons . The hon . Member is right to say that the Bill decreases the number of peers on the Opposition Benches , but the share of the Opposition ’s seats in the Lords will reduce from around 34 % to around 32 % . Given that the Conservatives will remain the largest party in the second Chamber , I am sure that hon . Members will agree that the Bill is hardly a power grab . I very much look forward to engaging with the shadow spokespeople from the Opposition parties . I have welcomed discussing this matter with the hon . Member for Richmond Park and Members of other parties who made time to discuss the Bill at drop - in sessions last week . I look forward to further engagement with all those who attend the Committee of the whole House , especially given the important views that have been expressed today . I stress again that this Bill is about finally removing an outdated and indefensible principle , and not about individuals . As my right hon . Friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office mentioned at the beginning of the debate , the current hereditary peers and their predecessors have made notable contributions to the other place , the merits of which we have heard in this House today . This is the first step in reform and not the last . The other reforms set out in our manifesto are more complex and it is right to take the time to properly consider their implementation . I know that the Leader of the House of Lords has outlined her commitment to meaningful dialogue with Members of the other place on further reforms to bring about a smaller and more active second Chamber . The Government remain committed in the long term to replacing the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that is more representative of the nations and regions and of how the public can have politics best serve them . As the manifesto makes clear , it is right to start with this immediate reform , completing the work that we began 25 years ago . I commend this Bill to the House . Question put , That the amendment be made . The House divided : Ayes 105 , Noes 453 . [ Division No . 19 , 6.55 pm ] Question accordingly negatived . [ Division lists were not available at the time of publication . ] Question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 62(2 ) ) , That the Bill be now read a Second time . Question agreed to . Bill accordingly read a Second time .