Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to speak during today ’s important debate . I wish to begin by taking the opportunity to thank my constituents for choosing change and putting their trust in me at the ballot box this summer . This was indeed a “ change ” election . The last time that a Labour MP for South Dorset stood here and made his maiden speech , I was just six years old . But my Labour predecessor — Lord Knight — did not waste any time winning my support . As the local MP , Lord Knight relentlessly fought for my community , and he leaves behind a legacy of which we can all be proud . His successes include rebuilding my dilapidated primary school and then rebuilding my secondary school as well . Lord Knight was also at the heart of the campaign to win the 2012 summer Olympic games bid , with Weymouth and Portland proudly hosting the sailing events . I consider myself very fortunate to have one of my predecessors working just along the corridor in the other place . This Palace of Westminster can be an ancient and mysterious workplace at times , so I will always be grateful for my Lord Knight in shining armour just around the corner . I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Richard Drax . As our MP , his commitment to our armed forces community was second to none . The constituency may have changed hands , but I fully intend to continue his work championing our armed forces . If I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would also like to pay tribute to another former Member of this House , Baroness Hodge . Many Members will , like me , have worked alongside Baroness Hodge . Working with her is certainly an unforgettable experience . “ Relentless ” , “ feisty ” , “ ferocious ” , “ attack dog”—these are just some of the terms bandied around the staffroom at Amazon headquarters after only the briefest of cross - examinations by Baroness Hodge , and with good reason . She exemplifies how to be an effective and tenacious change - maker in Parliament . For more than a decade , she has been the scourge of tax - dodgers and kleptocrats , white - collar criminals and oligarchs alike . It was a pleasure to work alongside her in the battle against dirty money and economic crime . I look forward to continuing her important work , both in this place and on the Public Accounts Committee . Before I take Members on a walking tour of my constituency , I would just like to say thank you to the people who got me here . My parents , my wider family , my friends and my partner have always had my back . They have always supported my endeavours , and they have given so much to ensure that every opportunity was made available to me . Thank you . There is something deeply personnel about being able to represent your home . It is an honour to be able represent my friends , my family , my neighbours and my former classmates . In the years ahead , I look forward to rigorously standing up for all the communities that make up South Dorset . Madam Deputy Speaker , wherever you look across my constituency , a strong sense of community and local pride is unmissable . Starting our stroll in the east of my constituency , we will find Studland and then Swanage , a small , charming seaside town . The people of Swanage have much to be proud of , including the legacy of one Trevor Chadwick . Trevor was a public - spirited man , a local schoolteacher and a lifeboat volunteer . In 1939 , he joined Sir Nicholas Winton to assemble the Prague Kindertransport . Despite the clear dangers facing him , Trevor went to Prague to help rescue 669 children from the Nazi regime , yet , much like Sir Nicholas Winton , Trevor did not seek praise or recognition for his heroism , and for many years his work went unmarked . There now stands a statue in Swanage marking his proud legacy . Walking past it just the other day , I was reminded of the quiet selflessness and compassion that sits at the heart of all our communities . We can all learn from his example . The town of Swanage is also rightly proud of its many independent businesses , its award - winning beach and its essential community hospital . Without these institutions , the town would be lost , so I look forward to advocating for all three at every opportunity . Now , Madam Deputy Speaker , moving west on our walk along the coastline of my constituency , you are spoilt . Whatever other Members might claim , I know that my constituency truly is the most impressive , the most spectacular , and the most charming . If you do not believe me , just ask UNESCO . My constituency is the proud home of the Jurassic coast : St Aldhelm ’s Head , Chapman ’s Pool , Bacon Hole , Lulworth Cove , Durdle Door and Ringstead bay are all geological gems dotted along the coast . Most hon . Members have probably already visited this part of my constituency , either on a romantic weekend away , a summer holiday or an ill - fated geography field trip many moons ago . Either way , all who visit the Jurassic coast leave with lifelong memories . Rural communities such as Corfe , Worth Matravers , Langton Matravers , Winfrith and Wool are all proud to call the Jurassic coast our back garden . I will do all I can to defend , preserve and enhance that unique landscape . Ambling further west , we arrive at the friendly seaside town of Weymouth . Weymouth and nearby Portland were a key departure point for the Dunkirk evacuation and , later , the D - day landings . My home town was a generous home to soldiers , sailors and airmen during the second world war . In the months prior to D - day , Weymouth hosted thousands of British and allied forces as they prepared for the liberation of Europe . In Weymouth we do not easily forget the importance of those D - day landings , and our town is proud of the role that we played in turning the tide against fascism . In a world that often feels insecure and riven by conflict , our community will always remember the sacrifices made to defend democracy and freedom . Weymouth also remains proud of a local parliamentarian , Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton . In the early 19th century he was a Member of Parliament for Weymouth and a leading member of the abolitionist movement . Alongside William Wilberforce , Buxton led efforts to abolish slavery throughout the British empire . Wherever I go in Weymouth , there are quiet reminders of that important figure and the role he played in making the world a more civilised place . We are proud of his legacy and I believe we are a kinder and more caring community because of it . Weymouth is a fantastic place to call home , but that does not mean our town is without its challenges . Growing up there the message I too often heard was that to get on , you had to get out . I reject that outlook altogether . I am proud to call Weymouth home and I will do everything I can to attract the jobs , investment and opportunities that every young person there deserves . Arriving at the westward end of our walk through our constituency , we find the Isle of Portland , but we do not need to visit Portland to appreciate its significance . Parts of this Palace of Westminster were built using Portland limestone . The Cenotaph and Whitehall were also constructed using that stone , as were the United Nations headquarters and much of Buckingham Palace . We are proud that a part of Portland can always be found in the corridors of power , yet Westminster and Whitehall can too often feel remote and far removed from life on the island . I will always stand up for the proud communities living in Portland , and I will do what I can to shrink the gap between communities and the corridors of power . I have begun by working with the Government to shut down the Bibby Stockholm barge , and I will continue by challenging proposals to build an incinerator and by campaigning for improved healthcare and much - needed green investment . Well , there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker : a short ramble across South Dorset , all enjoyed from the comfort of these green Benches . The countryside and coastline , the towns and villages that make up my constituency are brimming with pride and with strong communities . It is an immeasurable honour to represent each and every one of them , and I shall seek to serve them first and foremost in this House .