Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Andrew Bridgen Deidre Brock Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R. Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O'Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James Davies Mims Davies Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil O'Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul Scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles Watling Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Robert Largan My hon . Friend , who I know very well — I have visited his constituency in a former life — makes very good points . He is a doughty champion for Bexley . He follows in the famous footsteps of James Brokenshire , who we all miss and who was my boss at the Home Office for a long period . I am happy to discuss the issues he raises further . He makes an interesting point about funding going in a particular way . It would be wrong of me to make first - day commitments at the Dispatch Box , but I will take his point away and get officials to look at it with interest , and I am happy to discuss it further . The hon . Member for Putney set out the history of Hammersmith bridge in some detail . She is right that it is a grade II listed suspension bridge , opened in 1887 , and has served generations of Londoners very well for some considerable time . However , there are a few of her points with which I would gently take issue . First , let us go to the basics : the bridge is not owned by the Government ; it is owned by the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . It is not the responsibility of the Government . Even if people had listened to quite a lot of the speech , they may not have picked that up . The responsibility for maintaining the bridge and making decisions on its repair lies with the borough . It is unfortunate that the bridge had to close , first to motor vehicles in 2019 and then to all users in 2020 . The reason , as we know , was that the safety of those using the bridge was deemed to be of the utmost priority . The assertion was made that the Government have done nothing . I respectfully invite the hon . Lady to accept that the Government have provided nearly £ 10 million of funding to support the London borough , to ensure that there is remedial work and assistance on an ongoing basis . I set that out to try to correct the record . Following the complete closure of the bridge in 2020 , the DfT provided £ 4 million of taxpayers ’ money , which enabled a comprehensive investigation into the overall structure and condition of the bridge . Through this investment , world - leading engineers worked to develop a complete picture of the issues that faced the bridge . The works determined the bridge to be in better condition than first feared , leading to the bridge reopening on a temporary and controlled basis to pedestrians , cyclists and river traffic . The Department for Transport has worked closely with the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and with Transport for London to help facilitate the reopening of the bridge to all users . In that vein , DfT established the Hammersmith bridge taskforce , which was led by the Transport Minister , Baroness Vere , as the hon . Lady outlined . The taskforce was set up in 2019 and has had many , many meetings — well over 15 — since , and it was instrumental in providing a forum for interested stakeholders to work together to develop a clear course of action to resolve the immediate safety concerns around the bridge . I know the hon . Lady has called for a further meeting of the taskforce . I want to try to address that . I assure her that when we are in a position to hold a further taskforce meeting , it will be to discuss issues of significance or change for the project , therefore ensuring that it remains a good use of stakeholders ’ time . However , she will be aware that we have been waiting for the business case to be submitted and that is clearly the key part . The commitment to this project by the DFT has not stopped at the initial £ 4 million support provided to the authority . In the most recent TfL extraordinary funding and financing settlement of August 2022 , we committed to funding up to one third of the costs shared with the borough and TfL of reopening the bridge to pedestrians , cyclists and river traffic , and then , depending on costs , to buses and motor vehicles . The first part of this commitment has already been delivered . In March 2022 , the Department for Transport approved the business case from the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham for the stabilisation works on the bridge , which in turn triggered the release of a further £ 3 million of Government funding . These works will ensure that the bridge remains open to pedestrians , cyclists and river traffic permanently , with no risk of further temporary closures due to unsafe conditions . I am pleased to say that those works are due to complete very early in the new year and will provide certainty to the pedestrians and cyclists of Barnes , Hammersmith , Fulham , Richmond and beyond that this link across the Thames will remain open . Most recently , as all parties will be aware , the Department for Transport provided the borough with a further £ 2.5 million for the crucial geotechnical investigations now being carried out at Hammersmith bridge , which will pave the way for the next stage of the works . This brings the total amount of Government funding to the bridge to date of up to nearly £ 10 million . That is exceptional funding . The next stage of the project is to strengthen the core and renovate other structurally significant parts of the bridge . The strengthening phase of engineering works will build on stabilisation works and , upon completion , will allow the bridge to reopen to all users . That should include buses and motor vehicles . Following close co - operation with TfL and the Department , the borough has now developed and submitted a His Majesty ’s Treasury Green Book outline business case for the second stage of the works to the Department for Transport , setting out the estimated cost range for strengthening the bridge . The Department is reviewing that outline business case in great detail . It was submitted in on 23 April , as I understand it , so clearly that is an ongoing process . The hon . Member for Putney asked about the HS2 project and the funding related to it , but no decisions have been made regarding reallocation of funds . The hon . Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) also raised the local implementation plan . It is true that Transport for London provides formula funding to London boroughs for transport projects , but its budget for bridge projects is just over £ 2 million , to be shared between 33 boroughs . That is obviously insufficient to fund this project .