It is an honour to have been elected to represent Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , which is something of an amalgam of a couple of previous constituencies . First , I would like to thank the electorate of the constituency for sending me to this place to represent them and for putting their trust in me for the years to come . On my arrival here , an amazing job has been done by the House staff , the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and others , and I can not thank them enough for the welcome that they have provided us as new MPs . I have a number of predecessors that I need to thank , not least because it is nearly two constituencies rolled into one . First of all there is Douglas Ross , who represented Moray for the Conservatives for several recent years . We were not very close on the political spectrum , it has to be said , but there were a number of occasions where we did come together across parties for the benefit of the constituency and the wider region , notably in the achievement of the growth deal for Moray and to maximise the spend that we got on that . I am sure the official Opposition would also want to thank him for his service in the Scotland Office . My predecessor in Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey was Drew Hendry , who was a regular contributor from the Scottish National party Benches . He represented us as an Opposition spokesperson on the economy , trade , foreign affairs , business , enterprise and investment , and transport over several terms as an MP for that area . He was also an assiduous campaigner on energy poverty , which is a particular issue for the highlands and islands and in Moray . I hope that energy regulation is one of the areas that the Government ’s commission on poverty will look at very seriously . My right hon . Friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the leader of the SNP in this place , mentioned the two - child cap . I will not go into too much detail on that because it has already been well covered , but energy poverty is a critical issue for many families throughout the highlands and Moray . Bringing in a social tariff , for example , would certainly make a big difference to families right across the highlands . Other predecessors have included several well - known parliamentarians . Labour Members will , I am sure , be pleased to know that my constituency is the birthplace of Ramsay MacDonald , and it has also been represented very ably by several notable SNP MPs over the years . One of the most famous was Winnie Ewing , who reconvened the Scottish Parliament in 1999 and also represented the area in the Scottish Parliament , in this place and in Europe . Her daughter - in - law , Margaret Ewing , was an assiduous campaigner on poverty issues and will be well known to older members of the House — or longer - serving Members of the House is perhaps more parliamentary . More recently there was Angus Robertson , who led the party in this place for a good number of years and is now a Cabinet Secretary in the Scottish Government . We can take a quick stroll through Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . It goes from the white sands of Lossiemouth , Burghead and Nairn right up to the Cairngorms peaks . It has the city of Elgin in it , which has now been established as a cathedral city for 800 years ; it is celebrating the 800th anniversary of the cathedral being established there . The constituency has the Speyside towns of Rothes , Aberlour and Dufftown . Dufftown , of course , is built on seven stills rather than seven hills . In the Badenoch and Strathspey towns we get Grantown , Aviemore , Newtonmore and Kingussie among others . We have surfing , skiing and mountain biking . There is a mountain railway , and we have a national park and a major wildlife park with everything from pine martens to polar bears . Moving back up to the coast , in Ardersier we have the green freeport . The Scottish Government have worked closely with the UK Government on that , and I am sure they will continue to do so . The green freeport is incredibly important to us in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . It is projected to have 3,500 jobs within 10 years , and it will be vital for just transition . That will need careful scrutiny over the coming years . Tourism , the labour market and affordable housing are major issues , particularly in the Badenoch and Strathspey area . Businesses have difficulty with staffing . They are often open only four or five days instead of seven . There is not really any significant unemployment — it is about 2 % to 3 % . There may be some room for getting more employment from the local labour market , but fundamentally the biggest impact on the labour market there has been Brexit . Immigration in that part of the world is a really significant issue , in that there is not enough of it . We have difficulty staffing care homes , the NHS and many businesses , which are fighting over the same labour population . We have iconic food , drink and fashion brands , including Walker ’s Shortbread and Baxters , not to mention the 49 distilleries that produce malt whisky and the numerous other distilleries that produce gin and vodka . There are also a number of breweries . We contribute extremely significantly to the Exchequer , and it is really important that we get some of that back . We also have three military bases . Fort George currently hosts the Black Watch — the 3rd Battalion , Royal Regiment of Scotland . Kinloss barracks is home to 39 Engineer Regiment , and RAF Lossiemouth is home to Typhoon , Poseidon and arriving Wedgetail squadrons . The welfare of service personnel and veterans is absolutely vital , and it is something I will raise frequently in the House . Civilian aerospace and space are the other major emerging sectors . Orbex in Forres employs well over 100 people , and it will be doing vertical launches from Sutherland and the SaxaVord spaceport . The right hon . Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) will have to forgive me , but its headquarters are , in fact , in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . Finally there is agriculture . Crofters and hill farmers based in Badenoch and Strathspey in the Cairngorms national park face particular challenges . We also have arable and the pork sector in the laich of Moray , where there are again employment challenges that need to be tackled . Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey is the fifth largest constituency , and it takes more than two hours to drive end to end , but what a drive it is — I would recommend it to anybody . I look forward to representing the people living and working the length and breadth of my constituency . I agree wholeheartedly . The work that the right hon . Member and I carried out throughout the last Parliament is an example of how we can work co - operatively with Members of opposite parties and find those issues on which we can serve our constituents well . He joins us at an opportune moment , as I am about to talk about an issue that is close to his heart . My final urgent request of the Government is one of moral duty : to recognise , support and compensate our nuclear testing veterans and their families . These are the men who put their lives at risk in dangerous atomic weapons tests to ensure our long - term security . For decades , campaigners , Labrats , veterans and their families , and the indefatigable Susie Boniface have been fighting for recognition for these heroes . They have highlighted scientific studies that show increased rates of miscarriage , increased birth defects , and the same rate of genetic damage as clean - up workers at Chernobyl . Of course , the campaigners take pride in the fact that the Defence Secretary and the Prime Minister met them when Labour was in opposition , and supported their campaign to receive the long overdue recognition they deserve . But despite winning the campaign for medallic recognition , the UK sadly still remains the only nuclear power that refuses them adequate compensation , research and support , unlike the US , France , Canada and Australia . Medal criteria are very limited , there has not been a formal recognition event and even access to war pensions has been impeded . Veterans , and sometimes their wives , widows and descendants , have reported making repeated requests to gain access to their blood or urine testing records from samples the veterans recall being taken during the nuclear testing programmes . Sadly , many confirm that their service medical records frequently do not include the test results , and they just do not understand why . The data is vital for their war pension applications and for understanding the conditions they suffer , but sadly the absence of such records means that many veterans ’ war pension applications are refused . I want to place on record my thanks to hon . Members right across the House who have continued to support these veterans , particularly the right hon . Member for South Holland and The Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who has worked closely with me and campaigners in recent years . This week , we have both written to the Defence Secretary and the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . Friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , requesting that they urgently meet us , veterans and campaigners , and work with us to deal with their concerns . We hope that is made an urgent priority , because ultimately the Government can and should deliver justice for these families , and now is the right time to do so .