I express my thanks and those of my Lib Dem colleagues to everyone working over the Christmas period to keep people healthy and safe . Preparedness for winter is absolutely critical for our health and care system , and a quick look at what happened last year shows us why . Ambulances across England collectively spent a total of 112 years waiting outside hospitals to hand patients over , and a quarter of a million people waited more than 12 hours to be seen . Every winter we are warned of a winter crisis . Under the Conservatives , crisis became the norm not just in winter but all year round . This year is very concerning so far . A&Es have overflowed through spring , summer and autumn . At my local hospital trust , Shrewsbury and Telford , one in three ambulances have had to wait more than an hour to hand over patients , while patients with devastating cancer diagnoses have had to wait months for crucial scan results . Across England , more than 7 million people are on waiting lists . Meanwhile , I am afraid , we have not heard enough from the Government on fixing one of the root causes of this crisis , which is our broken social care system . The scale of the crisis is demonstrated by the challenges facing ambulance services across the country at the moment . October — before the winter — was the third worst month ever for handover delays at West Midlands ambulance service , which covers my constituency . The equivalent of 130 ambulance crews are out of action , waiting every single day . Now these overstretched ambulance services are formally changing their advice to reflect the pressure they are under . At times of peak demand , even category 2 patients — those suffering a heart attack or a stroke — will be asked to make their own way to a hospital . People in North Shropshire have long had to put up with some of the worst ambulance waits in the country , and they have come to harm as a result . It may no longer be the case that they can rely on an ambulance arriving . Action is urgently needed to prevent more preventable deaths this winter . I am sure the Minister shares my alarm that ambulances may not be reaching people facing life - threatening situations . If she does , will she commit today to the Government tackling the handover delays paralysing the ambulance service by accepting Liberal Democrat proposals to make a £ 1.5 billion fund to provide more staffed beds , and by agreeing to urgent cross - party talks to fix the crisis in social care ? I welcome the Minister ’s announcement on the Green Paper on the future of the Post Office . It is also welcome that the Government are taking additional steps towards financial redress for the postmasters who suffered such horrendous treatment in that scandal . I am concerned that this new deal for postmasters comes at the expense of post office branches across the country , including at Kensington Park in my constituency . Does he agree that there should not be a choice between giving postmasters a fair deal and losing essential high street services ? Will he please meet me to discuss that further ?