It is a pleasure to speak during what I hope are the final stages of the Bill . Given that nearly all the Bills on which I have spoken up to now have been money Bills , this business of “ coming back from the Lords ” and scrutinising Lords amendments has not been part of my experience , so if I get anything wrong , I apologise . Like other Members , I want to begin by thanking a number of people and organisations , including the Mental Health Foundation , Carnegie UK , the Internet Watch Foundation , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and two researchers for the SNP , Aaron Lucas and Josh Simmonds - Upton , for all their work , advice , knowledge and wisdom . I also join the hon . Members for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) in thanking the families involved for the huge amount of time and energy — and the huge amount of themselves — that they have had to pour into the process in order to secure these changes . This is the beginning of the culmination of all their hard work . It will make a difference today , and it will make a difference when the Bill is enacted . Members in all parts of the House will do what we can to continue to scrutinise its operation to ensure that it works as intended , to ensure that children are kept as safe as possible online , and to ensure that Ofcom uses these powers to persuade platforms to provide the information that they will be required to provide following the death of a child about that child ’s use of social media . The Bill is about keeping people safe . It is a different Bill from the one that began its parliamentary journey , I think , more than two years ago . I have seen various Ministers leading from the Dispatch Box during that time , but the voices around the Chamber have been consistent , from the Conservative , Labour and SNP Benches . All the Members who have spoken have agreed that we want the internet to be a safer place . I am extremely glad that the Government have made so many concessions that the Opposition parties called for . I congratulate the hon . Member for Pontypridd on the inclusion of violence against women and girls in the Bill . She championed that in Committee , and I am glad that the Government have made the change . Another change that the Government have made relates to small high - risk platforms . Back in May or June last year I tabled amendments 80 , 81 and 82 , which called for that categorisation to be changed so that it was not based just on the number of users . I think it was the hon . Member for Gosport who mentioned 4chan , and I have mentioned Kiwi Farms a number of times in the Chamber . Such organisations can not be allowed to get away with horrific , vile content that encourages violence . They can not be allowed a lower bar just because they have a smaller number of users . The National Risk Register produced by the Cabinet Office — great bedtime reading which I thoroughly recommend — states that both the risk and the likelihood of harm and the number of people on whom it will have an impact should be taken into account before a decision is made . It is therefore entirely sensible for the Government to take into account both the number of users , when it is a significant number , and the extremely high risk of harm caused by some of these providers .