12.40 pm With permission , I will update the House on the steps this Government are taking to realise the benefits of expansion at Heathrow airport , having invited proposals for a third runway earlier this year . Today I am launching a review of the airports national policy statement . Britain wants to fly , and this Government will act to meet public aspirations . Our review of the ANPS will ensure that while we unlock long - term capacity for more flights at the nation ’s only hub airport , we will also meet our obligations to passengers , communities and the environment . Today is a step forward for UK aviation and infrastructure , supporting growth in the economy and enabling a modern , efficient transport system that harnesses international investment , boosts connectivity and strengthens UK competitiveness . We are committed to making a decision on a third runway at Heathrow within this Parliament , and we are clear in our ambition to see flights taking off on a new runway in 2035 . We said we would get on with this , and we have . When the previous Government set up the Davies commission , it took them five years to publish the original draft ANPS . We will get to the same point in 18 months , with the process completed by the end of 2026 , showing our commitment to delivering progress swiftly but robustly . When we say we back the builders , not the blockers , we mean it . But this is not a blank cheque . Expansion at Heathrow must minimise cost for passengers and customers . The taxpayer must not be expected to foot the bill . That is why the scheme will be privately financed — both the core project and the related infrastructure improvements . Extra staff and passengers must be able to get to and from the airport without turning the M4 and M25 into Europe ’s largest car park . Crucially , the expansion must align with our legal , environmental and climate commitments . Starting the review of the ANPS is critical to delivering expansion and will provide the basis for decisions on any future planning applications . The world has changed since the last ANPS review in 2018 , which is when it was designated . New environmental and climate obligations have been introduced , and patterns of travel have changed . However , pretty much every UK airport saw its busiest summer on record . We could put our head in the sand and pretend this is not the case , but we would be doing a disservice to our economy and to the next generation . That is why , in carrying out this review , we will consider how any proposed scheme must meet four clear tests : that it contributes to economic growth across the country ; that it meets our air quality obligations ; that it is consistent with our noise commitments ; and , crucially , that it aligns with our legal obligations on climate change , including net zero . We will seek the independent opinion of the Climate Change Committee , which I will write to shortly to request this advice . While a third runway at Heathrow has been factored into carbon budget 6 , it is right that we update our modelling and seek the views of the CCC . Given Heathrow ’s national importance , we will also consider naming the airport as critical national priority infrastructure , in line with our approach to low - carbon energy projects . We are further considering whether to name a statutory undertaker as an appropriate person to carry out the project under the Planning Act 2008 , providing additional clarity to stakeholders and the local community . It is clear that this is a large and complex programme that requires a thorough and evidence - led approach . Over the coming months , my Department will develop analysis on economic and environmental impacts of expansion . We will also undertake an appraisal of sustainability , as required by statute , alongside a habitats regulations assessment and other necessary technical work . If amendments are needed to the ANPS as a result of the review , we expect to consult on an amended policy statement by next summer . Communities will be able to have their say and we will shortly publish an updated stakeholder engagement approach to ensure transparency and fairness throughout the process . Earlier this year , we invited potential promoters to submit proposals for delivering a third runway at Heathrow . Seven proposals were received and were considered by officials from the Department for Transport , the Treasury and expert financial and technical advisers . Following that assessment , two potential schemes remain under active consideration : a proposal from Heathrow Airport Limited and a proposal from the Arora Group . We know that we must provide as much clarity and certainty for communities , investors and users of Heathrow as soon as possible , so we are seeking further information on the two proposed schemes with a view to reaching a final decision on a single scheme to inform the remainder of the ANPS review by the end of November . When making that decision , we will consider : the interoperability of the proposed scheme with existing infrastructure ; the plans for transport to and from the airport and associated road schemes ; the land take and impact on surrounding homes and communities ; the evidence that the scheme can be privately financed ; and the economic benefits of the scheme . This Government are committed to moving quickly but we will also do this properly . To deliver the scheme on time , the Government are also pressing ahead with a series of enabling reforms . The Planning and Infrastructure Bill will streamline the delivery of major infrastructure , including Heathrow . That includes faster consenting routes and more proportionate consultations . On judicial reviews , we have announced that we will work with the judiciary to cut the amount of time it takes for a review to move through the court system for national policy statements and nationally significant infrastructure projects . We are establishing the UK Airspace Design Service to deliver modernised airspace . That will initially prioritise airspace design for the London region , supporting both Heathrow and the wider network , and will also make flight paths more efficient so that planes spend less time over London . We will initiate slot reform to ensure future allocation maximises benefits of an expanded Heathrow , as well as approved growth at Gatwick and Luton for passengers , local communities and businesses . Expanding Heathrow will be one of the largest infrastructure projects in the UK . Rigorous and effective cost control will be essential to its success , both in minimising any impact on airline charges and costs to passengers and in maintaining credibility with financial markets . The Government will therefore work with the Civil Aviation Authority to review the framework for economic regulation for capacity expansion at Heathrow , ensuring the model provides strong incentives for cost - effective delivery . We expect the CAA to publish a working paper in November , with a view to that work completing next summer . This is a landmark opportunity for Heathrow , for the aviation sector and for the UK economy . The Government remain fully committed to ensuring the expansion is delivered in a way that is timely , cost - efficient and environmentally responsible . I commend this statement to the House .