Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . It is great to follow my hon . Friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) . I congratulate everybody who has done their maiden speeches today , and this is the first time I have done it — I suppose that is why they are called maiden speeches . I am proud to speak here for the first time , especially in this debate , as facilities in Corby were used by athletes to train for the Olympics . Kieran Reilly , who lives in Corby , won silver at the BMX freestyle . Adrenaline Alley was the venue he used in the constituency , a terrific venue that many use . I am delighted to be the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Corby and East Northamptonshire . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Tom Pursglove , who had the honour to represent Corby for nine years and became a Minister during that time . I know for a fact that he was very proud to serve his constituency , and I always found him extremely constructive and extremely cordial . I know that now , after Parliament , he is looking at doing work with disabled people and getting disabled people better access to work . I hope that I will be able to work with him , because I am now chairing an all - party parliamentary group on modernising employment . One area we are going to look at is how disabled people can access work , so I hope our paths will cross again . I also thank Andy Sawford , the last Labour Member of Parliament for the constituency , who continues to be a good friend to our constituency . He is somebody I seek wise counsel from , and I am fortunate enough to say that I get that rather cheaply . He runs a political consultancy , so if hon . Members ever ask him for his opinion , it is going to cost them a lot of money , but whenever I do , I get it for free . Thanks , Andy , for being there for us as we move on . Corby and East Northamptonshire is a large constituency that I have had many years of dealing with . I represented Corby ’s postal workers for over a decade , and I can tell you now that a finer group of workers you will never be able to meet . My daughter Hannah was married at the wonderful venue at the Stanwick hotel , and my father was for a time a boot and shoe worker in the town of Raunds . Indeed , Raunds has its place in history for fighting for fair wages and good pay . Next year marks the 120th anniversary of the Raunds strike of 1905 , which saw workers who made boots for the Army march to Parliament to demand better pay . The War Office agreed and set a minimum rate for their job . The case for fair wages and good pay is as relevant today as it was then . Work should be the route out of poverty . It should not mean a lifetime trapped in it , yet 40 % of children living in Corby and East Northamptonshire who live in poverty have at least one working parent . We need to reshape the world of work so that it pays , and our economy so that the dignity of a job is always better than no job . In - work poverty should be eradicated and chucked into the dustbin of history . Today , we celebrate the new deal for working people being laid before this House . With that , we will have the foundations for a better future for working people . I want to be around to ensure we can do that . Other parts that make up my constituency include the market town of Thrapston , which boasts its own livestock market . I was delighted to join Thrapston ’s mayor , Andy McGovern , at his recent service to celebrate his term of office . East Northamptonshire is also home to the town of Oundle . Oundle school and Prince William school are two of three schools in an open education partnership , which I am delighted to be able to support and facilitate , which sees independent and state schools coming together to share their facilities and best practices . Corby is a town built on steel . Back in the day , many travelled down from Scotland as steelworkers , and the steelworks were built . Residents are rightly proud of their heritage , which they celebrate each year with a weekend of highland games and many Burns suppers . It has a proud history and a spirit that has seen them rise against any adversity they have faced . That is why after fighting against the steelworks closure in the 1980s , which saw over 10,000 people thrown on the dole , they rebuilt their town ; they rebuilt their communities , and they would not be beaten . During my time on the campaign trail , one lady whose door I knocked on captured that spirit . “ I ’m standing to be your Member of Parliament at the next election , ” I said . “ That ’s amazing . My mum would really love to meet you ; can you come back in half an hour because we ’ve got guests at the minute ? ” I said yes , so I went back . It turned out her mum had just stopped taking treatment for stage 4 cancer and wanted to live her days . She said to me , “ I want you to do two things . First , always speak up for Corby ; we ’re good people , we ’re proud people . The second thing I want you to do is get the No . 50 bus back . ” I said , “ Okay , what ’s the No . 50 bus ? ” The No . 50 bus is the direct bus that went from Corby to Kettering general hospital . “ When my husband was in hospital , that was my lifeline to get to see him and I want it back , ” she said . I am going to pop round to see her daughter because on 2 November , it is back ; it will take people directly from Corby to Kettering general . The only thing they can not do is give us the No . 50 back ; it is now the No . 2 because the No . 50 goes to Peterborough and apparently it will cost money to get the number back , but I think the principle has been established . I have spent my adult life representing working people , from the start when I took on an apprenticeship with the Royal Mail and I joined my union , the Communication Workers Union . A lot of people talk about their schooling , their university , their training . The CWU was my schooling , my university , my training , and without a shadow of a doubt I would not be here today if it was not for the CWU . The journey here has been somewhat interesting to say the least . It started in the back of a taxi with me and Frances O’Grady talking about the importance of working- class people entering our politics , because we were on our way to the funeral of Jack Dromey , a dear friend to this place , this party and our movement . I want to put on record my thanks to the TUC for what it did in supporting me during my time as the candidate . It went from the back of a taxi with Frances to driving around Corby in a Vauxhall with Eamonn Norton and Mark Pengelly knocking on the doors of about 600 Labour party members to try to convince them I was the candidate they should all vote for . We did the best we could ; I became the candidate and now I represent that constituency . I know it is not going to be easy to do that , but I am determined to make a difference . There are issues that I want to get involved with and changes I want to see . I want to see a difference in the world of work by making sure that work really does pay and is a route out of poverty . I want to make a difference to give a voice to so many families with children with special educational needs who are being denied the basic right to education ; every child has the right to education , and having special educational needs should not mean that they are denied that fundamental right . The House is going to discuss dignity in dying , but there is another aspect to it that I want to talk about . In this country , it is legal to sack a worker on the grounds of capability when they have a terminal diagnosis . That is fundamentally wrong ; we need to close that loophole and make sure that the last thing people worry about when they have such a diagnosis is the future of their job . We should not be treating people like that and we need to make the changes accordingly . Lastly , I want to thank my family for their support . I am a proud father , grandfather , son and brother to a family that has always been strong in values and principles and I thank them all . My mum could not be part of this journey here with me because she died several years ago , but I want to say her name , Patricia Eileen Lilian Barron , because now I have said her name they will write it down ; it will be in Hansard so no one can erase it and a bit of her will live forever , and I am proud to be able to do that . With much to do to make the change that we need to give people back a future that they can once again look forward to , I for one will do all I can to make it happen . Our unity is our strength , our solidarity ; that is how we will get there and I intend to make the most of the time I have in this place .