Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for calling me to speak . Let me say congratulations and welcome to your place . I have been moved and inspired by so many contributions over the past few days , and it is an immense privilege to be making the first maiden speech of today . I also offer my best wishes to the hon . Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) , who will also be making his maiden speech today . Not only is he my neighbour , but he is representing a place that is really close to my heart . I am incredibly proud to be making my maiden speech as the new Member of Parliament for Ipswich . However , this is not my first contribution in this House . Yesterday , I asked a question at PMQs , highlighting the huge potential that Ipswich possesses but saying that , after 14 years of neglect , we desperately needed Government support to help revive our town centre . However , corners of social media instead focused on a very gentle joke I had made , when I pointed out that my home county of Suffolk once again had a premier league football team , unlike our friends north of the border in Norfolk . One keyboard warrior in particular took umbrage at that . His name is Ed Balls , and apparently he used to work here . He said that Norwich has had a 15 - year unbeaten run in the Old Farm derby — a run that will now , sadly , be extended due to Ipswich being promoted to the premier league and Norwich getting knocked out in the play - offs last season . I am sure that that will be a bitter pill for Town fans to swallow as they visit Anfield , the Tottenham Hotspur stadium , the Etihad and Old Trafford next season . Ed ’s tweet also represented my most significant celebrity beef on social media since Steve Brookstein — yes , the first winner of “ The X Factor ” nearly a decade ago . Ipswich has a rich and long history — so rich and long , in fact , that I am going to use this as an opportunity to settle an old score . Now that Colchester has vacated its town status , I am laying claim to Ipswich being the oldest continuous town in England . No , I have not checked that with the House of Commons Library , as I might have been given an answer that I did not want to hear , but two minutes of searching online tells me that I have a decent chance of being right — and I presume that , as I am now stating it as fact in Parliament , it now becomes true . Thomas Wolsey is arguably Ipswich ’s most famous son , and we in Ipswich have been celebrating his legacy throughout the past year through the Wolsey 550 . Wolsey does not always get the praise he deserves . Climbing the greasy pole will not win you many friends — something to which Members of this House will attest , I am sure . However , his story , rising from humble beginnings to becoming one of the most powerful statesmen in England , was remarkable , and he left his imprint on our town too . Ipswich can also lay claim to Ralph Fiennes , Constance Andrews , Thomas Gainsborough , Jean Ingelow , Brian Eno , Edith Cook and even Richard Ayoade , to name but a few . My job over the coming years will be ensuring that kids growing up in Ipswich today get their chance to make their dreams a reality , so that when my successor comes to make their maiden speech , they have a few more names to mention too . I would also like to mention my predecessor , Tom Hunt . While an MP , Tom often spoke about being neurodiverse , and was open about challenges that he faced growing up . He looked to tackle some of the stigma that still exists , and that is an incredibly powerful thing for a Member of Parliament to do . On election night , Tom charitably mentioned our shared commitment to improving the lives of children with special educational needs and disabilities , an issue that I have campaigned on for many years in Suffolk . I will now use my role to fight for those families here in Westminster . The SEND crisis is a national issue , and I know many colleagues from across the House will have heard countless stories about the struggles that families have had to endure to access the services that should be theirs . In Suffolk , we have had a decade of the most grotesque and repeated failures . I remember five years ago , after another damning report , the front page of our local paper , the East Anglian Daily Times , showed the faces of just some of the children and families who had been so badly failed by a broken system , with the heartbreaking , desperate headline , “ We must be heard ” . As ITV ’s report shows today , so little has changed half a decade later . Those children and their families have still not been heard . This is not just about the educational impacts on children , immense though they may be . It is also about the exhaustion , desperation and isolation that families suffer , day in , day out ; the months — years , even — battling for an education , health and care plan ; the time spent waiting by the phone , or checking emails , hoping that they might finally get some positive news ; and the energy they have to find just to try to navigate this broken system , fight through tribunals , and submit mountains upon mountains of new documentation and information , all while trying to care for their family . As a Labour Government , we can not let the suffering of vulnerable children and their families continue . It will be my personal mission in this place to fight this inequality and injustice . If I can make one final plea on this issue , as a former teaching assistant and proud GMB MP , I urge that when we talk about the crisis in retention and recruitment of teachers , we include specialist and support staff in the conversation . They are crucial to breaking down barriers to opportunity , too . I would like to touch on another subject that is incredibly important to me : the energy transition . This is not just an environmental necessity but an economic imperative . It can boost our economy , reduce bills , ensure greater security and deliver the well paid jobs that we need . With GB Energy , we will be able to achieve that . If Britain is to become a world leader in this area , as the Labour party has pledged , I want Ipswich and Suffolk to be right at the heart of this national renewal . Why should we not be ? Over the coming years , thousands of jobs will be created in new nuclear at Sizewell , in offshore wind and in solar . I am unapologetically ambitious for our town and our county . I do not want those jobs and that investment to drift away elsewhere . I want kids growing up in Ipswich , or people looking to retrain and upskill , to get those secure , well paid jobs . I want local businesses to benefit from the billions of pounds that will flow out of these projects , and I want our area to be the centre of national excellence . That is our future , if we are brave enough to grasp it . As a Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament , it is particularly welcome to me that our commitment to community energy sits at the very heart of this mission . The greatest - ever expansion of community energy projects , delivering a million new owners of energy , will be genuinely transformational , and as a proud Co - operative party MP , I will champion the growth of such projects , so that local people will benefit from our green transition too . Many of us are just a few weeks into our new role , and as this debate is about second jobs , I will be honest in my contribution and say that I have no idea why or how any Member of Parliament would have a second job . We all know what I am talking about . To be the Member of Parliament for Ipswich is the greatest privilege of my life , but to be frank , it is not like any other job . I think about Ipswich , and its beautiful , award - winning parks ; its waterfront looking absolutely glorious on a sunny day ; the music festivals that we have now , which I would have loved to have been to as a teenager — I am only slightly older now than I was then — and the fact that our town once again has a premier league football club . I might have mentioned that already . I think about Suffolk too , the place I moved to 25 years ago . I still hang out with my friends from Debenham high school . I still play for the same cricket club , the mighty Eye and District cricket club — my batting just as terrible , and my bowling just as slow , if not slower . I still want to walk around Fram castle , and along the beaches of Southwold , Aldeburgh and Dunwich . I still pop into Coes , a family business founded nearly 100 years ago , and I love nothing better than eating at the Lighthouse restaurant , or drinking an Adnams or an Aspall in the Woolpack or the Greyhound . I am still surrounded by my friends here , my family and my neighbours , not to mention a million happy memories , having been shaped and inspired by them for nearly a quarter of a century . I have no doubt that I will make some mistakes along the way , and I know that there will be some times when my constituents disagree with me , but know that everything that I do here will be out of service , friendship and love for my home , Ipswich and Suffolk . I join others in welcoming you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . Thank you for giving me the chance to make my maiden speech , and to contribute to this important debate on second jobs , speaking for the people of Spelthorne . I pay tribute to all Members who have made their maiden speeches , in particular my immediate predecessor , the hon . Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . He is clearly going to be a fearsome and fearless advocate for his constituents , based purely on the fact that he is prepared to risk the opprobrium of the people of Colchester , the people of Norwich , and perhaps most impressively of all , Mr Ed Balls . I congratulate him . I thank the House staff for the impeccable welcome that they gave us all as new Members . I was , for quite a long time , a soldier , so I was brought up on the mantra that two minutes early is three minutes late . It was therefore no surprise that at five minutes to 7 on the Monday after the election , I was the first in the queue at the top of the ramp . I saw two armed police officers , but there was also a Doorkeeper , resplendent in his uniform of morning coat and gold badge , and his beard . Not knowing what to expect , I approached him . He said , “ Good morning , Mr Jopp . ” I was beyond impressed . He continued , “ You might not recognise me under this beard , sir , but I ’m Matt , and I was with you in the Scots Guards in Afghanistan . ” I went from being impressed to being deeply touched . Having had the chance to listen to a large number of maiden speeches , I have noticed that when the name of the Member and their constituency flashes up on the screen , that is sometimes met with a knowing smile and sometimes not , depending on the name of the seat . It is like that excellent episode of “ Yes , Prime Minister ” when Jim Hacker and Sir Humphrey Appleby start discussing somewhere called St George ’s Island . Both of them suggest that they have some form of superior insight into St George ’s Island , but it quickly becomes apparent that neither of them have any idea where on earth it is . Lest my maiden speech become something like that , I thought that I ought to tell the House where Spelthorne is . Spelthorne is everything south of Heathrow airport until the Thames . We are in the administrative county of Surrey and the historic county of Middlesex . We are inside the M25 but not in London . Crazily , you can use an Oyster card to take a London bus there , but not the train . We are outside the clutches of the Mayor of London ’s dreaded ultra low emission zone charge , but according to the Church of England , we report to the Bishop of Kensington . Hon . Members might think that all those special circumstances would give rise to something of an identity crisis for the people of Spelthorne , but not a bit of it , because no one who lives there actually calls it Spelthorne anyway . Instead , people say they live in Staines , Stanwell or Stanwell Moor ; in Ashford , Shepperton or Laleham ; in Halliford , Charlton Village or Sunbury . By the way , all hon . Members sitting in Parliament today are here thanks to a notable resident of Stanwell : Thomas , later Lord , Knyvet . It was he whom the King dispatched to search the cellars beneath Parliament , resulting in the capture of the treacherous gunpowder plotters . Clearly , Lord Knyvet ’s ability to navigate this place was a great deal better than mine . I pay full tribute to my immediate predecessor as Member of Parliament for Spelthorne , Kwasi Kwarteng , who had represented the constituency since 2010 . Hon . Members will not be surprised to hear that his name came up frequently on the doorstep in the last general election . Kwasi was a much - respected Back Bencher and Minister , as well as being a charismatic performer in this Chamber . A strong advocate for small businesses in Spelthorne , he instigated the Spelthorne business plan competition , now in its 10th year . Spelthorne people are some of the hardest - working people in the country , so it is appropriate that I should be making this speech in a debate on second jobs ; many of my constituents have them . I too have had a selection of jobs . As a friend of mine recently remarked , “ Blimey , Lincoln , 25 years in the Army and 10 years in private equity . Where did you see more violence ? ” Now I am in Parliament , with the huge honour of representing the people of Spelthorne , and I am struck by just how important that is , particularly at the moment . I am sure that all Members want to be a strong voice for their constituents and a local champion for their area , and I do too , passionately . However , we are also here to fulfil our second jobs : to make thoughtful contributions to the national and international debate on issues of great moment , none of which is more important , in my view , than the defence of the realm , given that the world is the most dangerous it has been since the end of the cold war . We are having a defence review , which will take time ; but time may be running out , and the right course of action — increasing defence expenditure — is all too clear now , let alone in 12 months ’ time when the review reports . I gently suggest to all Members of this House that to govern may be to choose , but it is also to act , and that the answer to autocracy is rarely more bureaucracy . To finish on a lighter note , I hope that hon . Members now know a little bit more about Spelthorne . They are welcome to visit any time , whether to hear about the work of BP ’s global technology centre as it seeks to decarbonise the world , or to see the largest film studios in Europe and the second biggest in the world after Hollywood . They might instead be interested in a flutter on the horses at Kempton Park — not that we on the Conservative side of the House are allowed to bet any more — or maybe just to potter along the Thames like “ Three Men in a Boat ” . Madam Deputy Speaker , I said I would finish , and I do not make promises I can not keep . I made one promise to the people of Spelthorne . It was that if they elected me , we would move to the constituency . Thanks solely to the efforts of my amazing wife Caroline , we picked up the keys to our new home in Spelthorne on Tuesday , and will have moved there by the end of the weekend . That is the first promise I have kept to the people of Spelthorne . I look forward , as I serve them , to there being many more . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . It is a real privilege to make my maiden speech with you in the Chair , and a delight to follow the hon . Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and my hon . Friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . I can not promise that my speech will be as witty as theirs , but I do support a proper premier league team in Manchester United—[Interruption . ] I have lost the House already . It is an honour to make my maiden speech in this House as the very proud MP for my home town . Telford is where I was born and raised , and where I am now bringing up my own family . I am Telford and proud . I begin by talking about those MPs I follow . My predecessor , Lucy Allan , worked on many notable causes . I particularly pay tribute to her tireless work in respect of the Post Office scandal , and to her constituency team , who have supported the residents of Telford over the past nine years . I would also like to mention and thank my friend and mentor , my immediate Labour predecessor David Wright , who served our town and this House with passion for 14 years . I also want to pay tribute to the first person to hold the job of MP for Telford , a great supporter and crucial adviser to me , who now sits in the other place , Lord Bruce Grocott . Lord Grocott led me on a tour of this House in 1997 , when I was just 11 years old — right hon . and hon . Members may be forgiven for thinking that I look to old to have been 11 in 1997 , but that is what 14 years in local government does to you . Telford is a new town in Shropshire , one that has grown significantly since its designation as a new town in 1963 . A town with a proud history and strong local identity , we are home to the west midlands ’ only world heritage site , the Ironbridge Gorge , the true birthplace of the industrial revolution . We have long - established communities such as Madeley , Oakengates and Dawley , which were recorded in the Domesday Book , and other proud communities too . I am of course a son of Telford , but also of Dawley , the birthplace of Captain Matthew Webb , who in 1875 become the first man to swim the English Channel . His monument in Dawley High Street says , “ Nothing great is easy . ” Telford is great , but over recent years we have certainly not had it easy . Despite the challenges it has faced , just like our own world champion boxer Liam Davies , Telford has continued to punch above its weight . We have delivered housing growth and economic growth . We have outstanding education , with outstanding primary schools , first - class secondary schools , and we are home to the Thomas Telford school and to state - of - the - art further and higher education facilities , with Telford College and Harper Adams University in the centre of Telford . We have a record number of green and protected spaces . In fact , if hon . Members would like to visit Telford , joining the 3.2 million people who do so each and every year , they will notice just how green we are . We are home to millions — and I mean millions — of trees . We are known as a forest city . In Telford we are also incredibly proud to be home to some of the biggest defence companies . Right now , Telford residents are working on tanks destined for Ukraine and distributing essential equipment , from uniform to morphine , that will be deployed across all parts of the world to our brave armed forces . Our relationship with the armed forces is deep and strong . We are home to over 8,000 veterans — my own family have served in all three services — and our council became one of the first authorities to be awarded a Ministry of Defence gold accreditation for our work on the military covenant . For the past eight and a half years , I have served as leader of Telford council , and we have done a lot over that time . We have regenerated our town centre , with the creation of Southwater . We have been a business - winning and business - supporting council : we are home to Besblock , which provides bricks to almost every house building company across the country , and to Aviramp , which provides airports across the world with boarding ramps ; and we also provide wheelie bins to most households across the country . We have kept our council tax among the lowest of all councils in England . We have supported children with outstanding children services , delivered exceptional adult services , and been leaders within our sectors . As well as a being a council leader , I have led Labour in local government . I have chaired the cross - party Local Government Association . Indeed , I am proud to be the first former chair of the LGA to sit in this House rather than in the one down the corridor . I welcome to the House hon . Members and Friends who have served as councillors and council leaders . In Telford , as in the rest of the country , poverty and child poverty are increasing . It is heartbreaking that almost one in 4 children are living in poverty . For me , that is not an academic issue ; it is personal . I was in poverty as a child . I remember switching the lights off in our council house and laying on the floor as debt collectors banged on our door . I remember the embarrassment of queuing for a blue free school meal ticket as many of my friends got their paid yellow ones . That deep - down imposter syndrome remains and is very much with me today . For too long , towns such as Telford have had their contributions to housing and job growth banked , but the investment and support that is so desperately needed to break the cycle of poverty has not arrived . Despite our housing growth , we have not had the investment needed over the past 14 years — the closure of our A&E and the relocation of our consultant - led women and children ’s unit being examples . I say to my constituents that I will never stop fighting to bring services back to Telford . I pay tribute to Telford Crisis Support , which works with the community and provided 238,624 meals last year — up by almost 21 % on the year before . It also provides clothes , nappies and the very basics of life , offering a vital lifeline to families . Families come in many different shapes and sizes . From the age of 11 , I lived with my nan , Betty , who is and was my guiding star . Although I lived with my nan from such a young age , my parents have always been there for me , too . I was lucky to have people like my great aunty Dil , who provided me with the financial support that meant I could be the first person in my family to go to university , where I read law and qualified as a solicitor . I am so lucky to have my own family now . I am a proud dad and stepfather to Evan , Millie and Owen — my wife Elise and I see no distinction in our family . Part of the role of councillor is to be a corporate parent . Those in state care should be considered part of all our families . In Telford , 423 young people are in our care , and we support 249 care leavers . When I was the chair of the LGA , I described the local government sector as the corporate uncles and aunties of those in care and those who have left care . What , then , is this House ? What are Members of Parliament to those children in state care ? Maybe we are the corporate great aunties and uncles with resources , influence and wisdom — just like my auntie . What more can we do to support our children in case ? To children living in council homes , in temporary accommodation or in our care , who are picking up free school meals , food parcels and avoiding debt collectors , I say this : “ If I can get here , so can you . ” To provide a better future to all our children , we must reform our public sector . Yes , for some that is a dry subject , but it is the only way to fix our broken system . Reform is vital and prevention is key . The longer - term approach to investment — investing a pound now to save hundreds of pounds many times over — will be important . Investing in and focusing on the first 1,000 days of a child ’s life can lead to better life outcomes and massive savings to the public purse . We must always ask ourselves how public services can best serve the public . The answer is so often with the users of those services and those who work in them . When those who have skin in the game are empowered and trusted , the results are always better . We know that so well in Telford , after the recent work of Holly , Scarlett and Joanne . For too many , our country does not work for them . Not only are they disconnected , but they feel a million miles away from this place . That allows others to exploit the void — to divide us . We — all of us — should work together , despite our political differences , to help connect this place to our citizens , so that democracy does not just survive , but thrives . I hope that I can work on that nationally in the coming months and years . I thank the people of Telford for trusting me with the incredible honour and privilege of representing my home town . I will stand up for Telford and for them . I know that we have a long road ahead of us , but I am committed to the challenge . After all , nothing great is easy .