My right hon . Friend is absolutely right : there are impacts on both freeholders and leaseholders . Different types of property and tenure are impacted in different ways . Elements of the rent charges regime will be extinguished by the 1977 Act , which he rightly referenced , in 2033 ; that has been in law since before I was born . However , there are a number of other issues that need addressing , and the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill was introduced to address some of them . A whole range of reforms are necessary across the leasehold sector , and the Bill seeks to address that , but as my right hon . Friend outlined , there are two main issues that this discussion of Port Marine has highlighted : the variable service charge , and the rent charge point , which he just spoke about a little more . The Bill as it stands will absolutely make progress on variable service charges in a number of ways . It will not fix what has happened in the past , but it absolutely seeks to minimise the chance of it happening again . Unjustified increases in variable service charges are not acceptable . Any service charges must be transparent and communicated effectively , and there should be a clear route for challenging them if things go wrong . The Bill ensures that all leaseholders will receive : key minimum financial and non - financial information regularly , including a standardised service charge demand form ; an annual report of charges ; the timely provision of service charge accounts ; and the right to obtain other relevant information . That is a significant step forward , as I know from discussions with both leaseholders and freeholders in my constituency , and from having spoken with colleagues from all around the House who have similar issues . We are also taking measures on service charges to ensure that leaseholders are not subject to unjustified legal costs . For the first time , they can , when appropriate , claim their costs from landlords if they go through the tribunal process and win . There will be a significant change on variable service charges as and when the Bill passes through both Houses . On fixed rent charges , the Bill introduces a framework to empower homeowners and to hold estate management companies to account for the service they provide . There will need to be transparency of information . There will be a new legal requirement that estate management charges must be reasonable . For the first time , there will be an ability to challenge excessive costs through the tribunal , and to ensure that estate management companies are held to account . The measures will also cover admin fees , including deeds of variation — my right hon . Friend highlighted that point . As I say , there will for the first time be a right to apply to the tribunal for redress . If there is a strong view , and proof , that the managing agent in charge is doing something inappropriate or is not fulfilling their duty , people can apply to a tribunal to have a substitute manager appointed . That will for the first time provide an opportunity for residents to highlight problems , and remove people who consistently cause problems . As I said in Committee , we recognised in Committee and from previous debates in the House the strength of feeling among colleagues ; that has been shown again by my right hon . Friend in this debate , and by the contributions of other hon . Members . We are considering further whether we can look at this area in more detail . I hope that I can soon say more from the Government Front Bench about that , although I can not do so tonight . To conclude , my right hon . Friend is absolutely right to raise the issues in this case and to highlight the key challenges that we see daily to do with when this system does not work . He raised how and when this system is not working for Port Marine . I hope there is restitution , and that a solution comes as soon as possible . I recognise the individual examples of when things are not working , but the Government are taking action , in a very Conservative way , recognising that we have to deal with these monopolies , smash the rent - seekers and remove distortions to make markets more perfect . We must ensure that there will not be another Port Marine in 10 , 15 or 20 years ’ time . When the Bill goes through , we will significantly improve this market and leasehold , and significantly change rent charges , so that people who want to buy their house and have the benefits of owner - occupation — we want to do all we can to empower people — gain real control over their future . We look forward to colleagues supporting the Bill as it goes through its final stages in the House in the coming weeks . Question put and agreed to . House adjourned .