I am sorry but I am not going to take any interventions , as I need to make progress . The court must speak to one of the doctors and can hear from anybody else they deem necessary . If there is any evidence of coercion , the court will not approve the request , and if evidence emerges subsequently , the court order could be revoked . It is also important to note that the person can change their mind at any time , with periods of reflection built in . Having consulted at the highest levels in the judiciary and the medical profession , I know that they can and will fulfil those safeguarding responsibilities and that they have the expertise to do so . Let us be clear : as my hon . Friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) said earlier , this is not brand new territory for doctors . Doctors , working in partnership with other clinicians , are already required to manage complexity in end - of - life decision making . I followed the request of the British Medical Association that doctors should be under no obligation whatsoever to participate , but if they do participate , they will receive appropriate training and support . Doctors should be able to use their professional judgment when and if a conversation takes place , taking their cue from the patient , as they do for many other issues . I welcome that patient - centred approach . Many doctors feel the change in the law would safeguard clinicians and patients by making everything explicit . When it comes to the detail of what assisted dying would look like , we have the benefit of drawing on the experience of 31 jurisdictions around the world . I could talk extensively about the international experience of assisted dying . The Health and Social Care Committee report did a brilliant job of that , and this Bill has looked at best practice as well as models which I and many others would not be comfortable with our having here in England and Wales . Reflecting on their experience , clinicians in Australia say : “ through deep and meaningful conversations between doctors , patients and their loved ones we can dispel fear , reduce suffering , bring death and dying out of the shadows , and so allow patients and their families a better quality of life and quality of death ” . As one Australian Member of Parliament said : “ We have brought ‘ behind - closed - doors ’ practices into the open and given dying people meaningful , transparent choices . Crucially none of the fears that were put forward as reasons not to change the law have been realised . The status quo was broken and assisted dying works . ” Evidence from around the world shows that the option of having an assisted death actually lifts the fear that terminally ill people have , and that many never actually use it but are able to make the best of the time they have left due to the comfort and reassurance that it provides . People talk about a slippery slope , but the Health and Social Care Committee found that not one jurisdiction that has passed laws on the basis of terminal illness has expanded its scope . [ Interruption . ] That is absolutely true . As the courts here and in Europe have repeatedly made clear , Parliament is sovereign . This Bill could not be made any broader through any judicial process . Speaking of process , with reference to the Bill , having listened to what I know are genuine concerns of Members about ensuring that we get this legislation right , I commit to the House that if the Bill passes Second Reading today , which I sincerely hope it does , I am minded to move a motion that gives the Bill Committee the power to take oral and written evidence in order to ensure that a thorough approach continues to be taken . That is not normal procedure for a private Member ’s Bill , but I think that that is the right thing to do . I also reassure colleagues that the Bill Committee will meet over a number of weeks , meaning that there is ample time for full consideration of the details of the Bill , including amendments . The Committee will be representative of the views and make - up of the House . Let me be clear : that will mean there will be representatives of different parties with a range of views on the Committee . As the Leader of the House said at the Dispatch Box just yesterday , and has said several times , the Government will , of course , work with me to ensure that the Bill is workable and operable . That will quite rightly take time , and I have included in the Bill a commencement period of up to two years — this is not going to happen overnight . That timeframe can be explored in Committee , as it is more important to get this right than to do it quickly . In conclusion , for the reasons I have set out , I am very clear that the law needs to change to give terminally ill people choice at the end of life and to protect their loved ones from fear of prosecution . There will be some of us here today who are lucky enough not to have personal experience of this issue , but sadly we know that any one of us could end up in this heartbreaking situation . We are all living longer , which is brilliant , and I have campaigned inside and outside Parliament for a greater focus on prevention and early intervention of illness and disease to keep us fit and healthy for as long as possible , but any one of us or our loved ones could be unfortunate or unlucky enough to receive a terminal diagnosis . I struggle to see how it is fair or just to deny anyone the autonomy , dignity and personal choice of taking control of their final weeks . And the right to choose does not take away the right not to choose . Giving the choice of an assisted death to those who want it would of course not stop anyone who is terminally ill from choosing not to make that choice . Whatever happens today , I am incredibly proud of the work that my fantastic team and the many campaigners have done on this hugely significant , emotional and sensitive subject . We need to be clear : a vote to take this Bill forward today is not a vote to implement the law tomorrow . It is a vote to continue the debate . It is a vote to subject the Bill to line - by - line scrutiny in Committee , on Report and on Third Reading . Then , of course , the Bill will go to the Lords for what I have no doubt will be further robust debate and scrutiny . This will be a thorough process , focused on one of the most significant issues of our time — an issue that people across the country clearly want us to address , none more so than the many families who are facing the brutal and cruel reality of the status quo . Today is the beginning , not the end , of that process , but the debate can continue only if colleagues join me in the Aye lobby today . I wholeheartedly encourage them to do so , and I commend the Bill to the House . On a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance on correcting the record . I said in my speech that I have consulted with the highest levels of the judiciary and the medical profession . I have received correspondence from the Judicial Office and wish to clarify my earlier comments . Although I have spoken to lawyers and judges , I should not have implied that the serving judiciary have in some way indicated their agreement with the Bill ; they have not . The serving judiciary have been very clear that they have made no public comments about the Bill one way or the other . I apologise if I implied anything to the contrary .