With your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement to the House about the action the Chancellor will take this week to fix the foundations and rebuild Britain . Economic growth and modern public services can only be built on strong foundations . That is why this Government have brought political and economic stability back to Britain . After years of chaos from the Conservative party — chaos that cost families , businesses and public services dear — the British people are now rightly looking to this new Labour Government to clear up the mess from the last Government , fix the foundations and rebuild Britain . That is the change that my party promised the country , and it is the change that we will deliver . To deliver that change , the fiscal rules that the Chancellor will set out this week will establish the basis for stable fiscal policy , meaning careful management of day - to - day spending and responsible long - term plans to invest and grow the economy . As we committed to in our manifesto , the Government will have two robust fiscal rules that will guide the decisions we take . The first is our stability rule : we will pay for all day - to - day spending on public services from receipts . The budget was last in surplus under the last Labour Government , and this Labour Government will return the public finances to that position . The second is our investment rule , which will get debt falling as a proportion of our economy . It will ensure that we can secure the investment that our economy needs to grow , and to generate jobs and opportunities for people across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , while maintaining a strong fiscal anchor and ensuring that our debt burden falls over time . The plans that we inherited from the last Government would have seen public sector investment decline to the lowest level in more than 10 years . The path of declining investment is the path of a declining nation , and we refuse to follow it . Instead , we will seize the huge opportunities of the future to support the enterprise and talent that this country creates . The Government recognise that sustained public investment is a crucial driver of long - term economic growth , giving the private sector the confidence to invest too , but our ambitions for public sector investment must be balanced against the need to maintain debt on a sustainable trajectory and ensure that we invest every pound of taxpayers ’ money responsibly . That is why I will deliver a 10 - year national infrastructure strategy next spring , working with colleagues across Government , the nations and regions , and with our mayors and the private sector , to set out a robust long - term strategy for sound investment . That is also why our new approach to overlapping multi - year spending reviews will improve the way that we allocate and spend capital , and why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and I will lead the new national infrastructure and service transformation authority , which will drive better delivery of major projects and infrastructure across the country . In addition , there will be the work of the new office for value for money and the National Audit Office . Those robust guardrails will ensure that our capital spending is value for money , and that our financial investments deliver a positive return for the Exchequer . Finally , the Chancellor has been listening to the views of institutions such as the International Monetary Fund , and to expert economists . As she has set out , that is why the Treasury has been reviewing the right measure of debt to target in the fiscal rules ahead of the upcoming Budget . The details of that policy will be announced to the House in the Chancellor ’s statement on Wednesday , alongside an economic and fiscal forecast produced by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . In the usual way , the fiscal rules will be published in a draft charter for budget responsibility , on which Members will vote in due course . I commend this statement to the House .