Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . It is a pleasure to follow the hon . Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . I congratulate her on a moving maiden speech , and I hope to add another place on her bucket list . I am honoured to have been elected as the first Liberal Democrat MP for North East Hampshire , a constituency that has had only two previous MPs : James Arbuthnot — now Lord Arbuthnot in the other place — who is known for his important role in supporting Jo Hamilton and other sub - postmasters and postmistresses ; and Ranil Jayawardena , who likewise wanted the best for our communities and campaigned for better infrastructure locally , alongside carrying out his ministerial roles . Boundary changes mean that those in Lychpit and Old Basing , who are warmly welcomed into North East Hampshire , were previously represented by Dame Maria Miller in the Basingstoke constituency . She was a strong advocate for women in Parliament and encouraged those of all parties . I am only the second woman to stand for Parliament in North East Hampshire , and only about 15 have stood before me in any of the constituencies now covered by the current boundaries , so it gives me great pride to be in the Parliament with the highest number of women ever . That achievement would not have been possible without the support of my dad , my late mum , and my husband and children . North East Hampshire is a place that people often travel through : by train between London and the west country , or by road on the A30 or the M3 , stopping perhaps at Fleet services . Those who live there , however , enjoy good schools , good transport links , low crime and plenty of countryside — all the reasons , in fact , why the place often tops the list of the best places to live in the UK , and why my family and I chose to move there 10 years ago . I encourage Members , the next time a journey takes them that way , to stop and visit . If they wish to indulge their interest in political history , they could choose to stay at the Four Seasons . The hotel is situated in the former home of Sir Henry St John - Mildmay , the fifth Baronet of the Dogmersfield estate , who was also , coincidentally , a Liberal political candidate in 1865 . Or they might choose Highfield Park , where Neville Chamberlain spent his final months . Once a visitor has arrived , there is plenty to experience . History enthusiasts should visit Odiham castle , Basing House and the Roman city walls at Silchester . Those with a military interest will not be disappointed with a constituency that boasts RAF Odiham ; Stratfield Saye House , the home of the Dukes of Wellington ; and Blackbushe airport , created as an airfield during the second world war . For nature lovers , there is so much to choose from : the Hazeley Heath nature reserve , or a sturdy walk up Beacon hill to look out over Caesar ’s camp . If they like their nature by the water , there is Fleet pond , the Basingstoke canal and our two chalk streams , the Loddon and the Whitewater . After all that , perhaps they might be in need of refreshment . North East Hampshire is home to dozens of village pubs , cafés and bakeries . From the award - winning Street Bakery in Old Basing to the Heron on the Lake at Fleet Pond , looking out over the water , there is something for everyone . We even have a local gin distilled at Upton Grey . One of the joys of the area is that each town and village has its own personality , with a high number of independent businesses that makes each one unique . A walk through Bramley is entirely different from a stroll along Hartley Wintney High Street or a meander through Yately . What unites all of these places is the people . Each unique town or village has a strong sense of community , and the people of North East Hampshire are unfailingly generous with their time and energy in pursuit of this goal . This community spirit was seen most recently when Hook infant school and local homes and businesses were victim to a summer flash flood . People rallied around , helped clean up , raised funds , donated items , hosted friends whose homes were damaged and offered sympathy . It is in this way that all the communities within North East Hampshire are connected . But this place that I love to call home is not without its challenges too . Connecting our towns and villages takes more than good will . Our roads , particularly our smaller roads , are in a terrible state , public transport leaves a lot to be desired , and bus routes are sparse at best . It is also surprising that North East Hampshire is behind the national average in the adoption of 5 G mobile services , especially when we consider the above - average employment in the technology sector — one that will be vital for the modernisation of both Government and our public services . The investment that is needed to ensure joined - up and efficient public service processes is as vital as the investment needed in North East Hampshire ’s transport . The UK has a proud history of research and innovation , but when nurses are still taking patient notes with pen and paper , it is clear that action is needed . Indeed , the National Audit Office ’s report only last year stated that “ outdated IT systems … are a key source of inefficiency ” in Government . We can not be a country needing to catch up , and I hope that the Government will draw on the expertise of those in the technology sector to quickly implement the best possible solutions , while ensuring that individuals ’ personal information is held with the highest possible security . I also encourage the Government , in their review of technology in public services , to consider the role that charities play in supporting the sector . The tireless work of organisations such as Citizens Advice and the Trussell Trust , as well as countless local and regional charities , is the bedrock of our communities . Such organisations support the public sector to deliver many vital services across health , education , housing , criminal justice and more . In my view , it is essential that those organisations are also invested in , and integrated into , the new systems that will be created . I look forward to working with those local organisations , those businesses and the people in North East Hampshire , and I thank them for putting their trust in me . It is a privilege to make my maiden speech today , and to follow the hon . Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) and my hon . Friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) ; I congratulate them on their moving maiden speeches . They brought their constituencies to life vividly , and I hope I can do the same . I am proud to be the Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament for Norwich North , and my first message is one of thanks to the people of Norwich North for putting their faith in me ; however you voted , I am here to serve you . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Chloe Smith , who served Norwich North for 15 years as a Minister and Secretary of State , including for science and innovation , and of course as a constituency MP . Like me , Chloe is a Norfolk girl ; we went to nearby secondary schools , and I know that one of her passions was opening up opportunities for young people , which is something else we share . The last Labour Member of Parliament for Norwich North was Dr Ian Gibson , a fierce advocate for our community . It is apt that I am making my speech in this debate , given his passion for science and innovation , and I am pleased to say that a new fellowship is being set up in his name at the Quadram Institute in Norwich : the Invest in ME Research Ian Gibson fellowship . I also follow in the footsteps of Dorothy Jewson , elected in 1923 to represent Norwich , and one of the first three Labour women MPs . She was known for action to tackle poverty , and was key to the creation of many of Norwich ’s beautiful parks . She is also noted for refusing to wear a hat in the Chamber . I fully agree with her when she said that women were not in Parliament to discuss dress or millinery , but to do something . Doing something is what I intend to do . My priorities are shaped by what I have heard from my constituents . That is why I will fight for better health , better homes , good education and decent jobs , and fight to tackle the biggest crises we face : the cost of living and the climate crisis . I could not be prouder to come from Norfolk . I grew up in a rural Norfolk village and have made my home in Norwich North . The constituency spreads from the northern reaches of the city — from the estates of Mile Cross and Heartsease , the pubs of NR3 and our amazing green spaces , such as Mousehold Heath and Waterloo Park — and into the Broadland area , comprising Sprowston , Thorpe St Andrew , Old Catton , Hellesdon and Drayton , each of which has their own unique identity . As many other Members have said , our strength comes from our active and vibrant communities . Local organisations , volunteers and parish and town councils bring so much to our area — organisations such as the Hellesdon dementia support group , which I visited just last week , the Sprowston youth engagement project , the many food banks and community hubs , and the environmental organisations working to protect nature . The better - known landmarks in Norwich , from the magnificent cathedrals to the castle , may be in the constituency of my hon . Friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , but Norwich North has many unique attributes , and many things that can provide inspiration to our Government , and I will touch on just a few today . We are home to Norwich airport , from which I flew this summer . That was convenient , but the airport is also a key driver of economic growth . It is pioneering green aviation , with the first all - electric pleasure flight launched last year from Norwich airport . We are also home to one of the first large - scale social housing estates in the country , Mile Cross , which marked its centenary just last year . When it was built , there was a desperate need for homes , and that remains the case today , when we need social and affordable housing in particular . On the many industrial estates , we can find example after example of small and medium - sized businesses harnessing creativity , innovation and providing much - needed jobs . Beyond the boundaries of Norwich North , there is a huge life sciences cluster at Norwich research park , which is relevant to this debate . To give just one example , scientists from the park are working closely with the UK Health Security Agency and the Food Standards Agency to harness the power of microbiology to protect our food supply . The same technologies were used during the pandemic to identify covid variants for the Government . I thank the Secretary of State for visiting Norwich just this year with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales to meet students and staff from Norwich University of the Arts , which is providing so much inspiration to many of the innovators of the future . We are also home to the Canaries — Norwich City — and reportedly the oldest football chant in the world , “ On the ball , City ” . My hon . Friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) is sadly not in the Chamber today , but I wanted to remind him that while we did not make it to the premier league , in the time it took Oasis to break up and reform , Ipswich have still not beaten the Canaries . I will remind him of that when I see him . I will also mention the great women ’s football we have in Norfolk and Norwich . In fact , just a few weeks ago I went to the opening of the Lauren Hemp community pitch in Broadland constituency . For all its advantages , Norwich North faces many challenges . Three in 10 kids live in poverty , thousands are on the housing waiting list , we are a dental desert and too many children , particularly those with special educational needs and disabilities , do not receive the education that they deserve . That must change . As important as what I intend to fight for is how I do it . Time and again , people told me that they were sick of us shouting at each other , and of adversarial politics . Norfolk is now a rainbow county ; anyone who saw the election results will know that we have practically every single party represented . I promise to work with everyone and anyone who wants to get the best for our area . I also note Norwich ’s long history as a place of refuge . It is officially a city of sanctuary and a tolerant , welcoming place , and I know that will continue . After the events of this summer , that is more important than ever . I am proud to stand here as a Labour and Co - operative woman MP . My path into politics was inspired by many women , starting with my mother , who is still persevering in the Gallery up there , and I thank her for that , as well as for the inspiration she provided to me as a local councillor ; she showed me the difference that politics can make . I want to thank my family , my dad , my twin sister , my friends and my partner for all their support . I am privileged to have worked for the former Member of Parliament for Camberwell and Peckham , Harriet Harman , who taught me so much about politics — about sticking to one ’s principles , taking on the most difficult of challenges and always , always saying thank you . I joined this House after years of working in international development , having worked in some of the poorest countries of the world , and also years of serving communities as a councillor . In everything I have done , from the local to the global , I have focused on fighting inequality and injustice , opening up opportunity , bringing people together to find solutions and working through differences . That is the approach that I will continue to take : to stand up for opportunity , to stand against inequality in Norwich North , nationally and internationally , and always to focus on what unites us . In conclusion , I want to finish as I began , with a message for the people of Norwich North : your home is my home , and I pledge to give it my all — to stand up for you , for our fine city and for our great county .