I thank the shadow Minister for his response , and welcome him to his place . I know that he will want to be a keen champion for the early years sector , and I was glad to hear him welcome the update that I have given to the House . As I said in my statement , Labour is committed to the delivery of expanded entitlement across Government . The last Government left significant challenges , but we are not shirking that responsibility . With Labour , the early years sector can rest assured that we will be working tirelessly to deliver a wider sea change in early education , as well as high and rising standards throughout the education system . Let me now deal with some of the hon . Gentleman ’s specific points . It is clear to me from my consultation and engagement with parents and providers so far that we have inherited a pledge without a plan , and the consequences of that are inherited delivery challenges relating to workforce and places . I appreciate the points that the hon . Gentleman made about the workforce ; I believe by resetting the relationship with the workforce , we can have a much more positive relationship with the sector in the future . Over 300,000 children have benefited from the entitlement offer since September this year , which demonstrates that we are actively engaging and working with parents to promote opportunities to take up the offer . We will continue to do so . On school - based nurseries , the pilot during the testing phase is for 300 places from April . Our ambition is for 3,000 places over the course of this Parliament . I look forward to working with the hon . Member constructively to bring about the change that early years education so desperately needs . I thank my hon . Friend for his question . I am absolutely delighted to hear of his enthusiasm for the scheme , which will make a huge difference to communities up and down our country . We are starting a test - and - learn phase in April ; the roll - out will be in September . We want to learn from that approach , and I would be delighted to work with him on this matter .