It gives me enormous pride to be stood before you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to make my maiden speech as Hemel Hempstead ’s MP . I pay tribute to my hon . Friends the Members for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . I know Stirling well through my involvement in the Make Poverty History campaign ; it is a very beautiful place . I am grateful to make my maiden speech in the presence of the Secretary of State , who was generous with his time in my constituency during the election . I am humble enough to accept , however , that the primary reason for his presence was usually the fact that his mother resides in Hemel Hempstead and is a member of the local party . In this debate about rural affairs , I want to start by paying tribute to the beautiful countryside that surrounds our town , and to the villages that are part of the constituency following the changes to the boundaries at the last election . From St Lawrence ’s church in Bovingdon , where I was this morning to mark Armistice Day , to Chipperfield cricket club and the Green Dragon pub in Flaunden , we are blessed with many picture postcard scenes — and my dog , Albert , is particularly fond of chasing squirrels on Chipperfield common . Turning to Hemel itself , the old town is so picturesque that one local council official jokingly referred to it as Hemelwood , such is its popularity as a filming location for local TV and movies . We were once home to the site of a major Roman villa on the River Gade , which supposedly had the biggest Roman bath outside Bath itself . When Hemel town council was amalgamated into a new district council , exactly 50 years ago this year , the then Labour leader of the council , Gordon Gaddes , who is still a stalwart in our community even though he is now in his 90s , chose an old Latin name for the council — Dacorum , which means “ of the Dacians ” , referencing a period in Saxon times when Danish law applied due to the presence of the Vikings . We also have a long - standing connection to Henry VIII , who in 1539 granted the town its market charter . Because of him , the mighty Hemel Hempstead Town FC are nicknamed the Tudors . Like many others , my family ’s connections to the area come from the creation of the new town after the second world war . This new town was one of Labour ’s finest achievements , providing families with decent housing , good - quality factory jobs , education and healthcare . From Chaulden where my dad grew up to Highfield where my mum did , and Adeyfield where my nan lives now , council housing surrounded a square with amenities such as shops , a community centre , a place of worship , a GP surgery and schools . I therefore welcome our new Government ’s commitment to build genuinely affordable housing and new council homes , while also ensuring that the right infrastructure accompanies them . As we seek to build new towns around the UK , I would be happy to show Ministers the virtues of our ingenious , and often misunderstood , magic roundabout . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Mike Penning . It was not just our community that he served with loyalty , but this nation : Sir Mike was a distinguished Grenadier Guardsman in the British Army and subsequently served as a firefighter in Essex . In his maiden speech he said that when he left this House he wanted to be known as a good constituency MP . He certainly was , doggedly taking up his constituents ’ individual cases when they needed him . I also pay tribute to our two previous Labour MPs : Tony McWalter , who was kind enough to take me under his wing when I was a member of the UK Youth Parliament , and Lord Corbett . Sadly , I never had the opportunity to meet Robin , but I know from my friendship with his widow , Lady Val , that he was a wonderful , warm and kind man who served his constituents with compassion . That leads me to the points that I will prioritise as I serve the people of Hemel Hempstead . First , I will strive to improve local healthcare , including by pushing for a new community hospital . In line with this Government ’s commitment to neighbourhood - based care , and enjoying the support of the local NHS trust , the local council and my predecessor Sir Mike , I will push hard for the project to advance in the most ambitious way possible , as well as ensuring that access to GPs and dentists improves . I will make sure that children in Hemel Hempstead , particularly those with special educational needs and disabilities , get the best possible education . The SEND situation , not only in Hertfordshire but in Dacorum itself , is particularly bad ; the issue came up repeatedly when I was talking to voters as a candidate , and it is at the top of my postbag now as an MP . At one of my most recent surgeries one parent , Natasha , told me that her son Alfie had been diagnosed with autism aged five , yet he has been repeatedly refused an education , health and care plan and has been waiting for a specialist appointment for almost two years . Sadly , her story is one that Members of this House will know all too well . I am glad the issue is an area of priority for our new Government , and I will continue to work on it on a cross - party basis as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on SEND . I will also prioritise combating crime . Recent stats show that Hemel was the one of the worst towns in Hertfordshire for antisocial behaviour — indeed , it was the worst major town — while vehicle crime is at 105 % of the national crime rate . I have seen that at first hand when I have had the opportunity to go out with local bobbies on the beat . I will work hard to make our community safer , whether by getting more police officers in our town or by working to reopen the front desk at Hemel police station . I know that the cost of living crisis is hurting people locally . Food bank use has gone up 1,000 % in the past 10 years in my constituency . I applaud the work that local charities such as DENS , Community Action Dacorum and Hemel Hempstead Community Fridge are doing to help . I am doing everything I can to stand alongside them , but I also pledge to push for better decisions to be made here in Westminster to ensure that food banks do not need to exist at all . In concluding his maiden speech , Sir Mike paid tribute to the person who brought him into politics , the late Sir Teddy Taylor — no relation ; it is a common name — and it is only fitting that I do the same . After taking part in the UK Youth Parliament , I thought long and hard about which great cause I wanted to focus my time and energy on . I got involved with the Make Poverty History campaign ; I still have the wristband around my wrist . I attended a rally exactly 20 years ago outside the Labour conference , where I heard the then Chancellor Gordon Brown speak in thunderous terms of our duty to help those less fortunate than ourselves . A few years later , I had the enormous privilege of working for him , with my newly elected hon . Friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) . Many within these walls and beyond will recognise his — and her — unrelenting dedication and drive to improve the lives of others , which inspires me to this day . Finally , I add my name to those who have paid tribute to Jo Cox in their maiden speech . With the Labour Campaign for International Development , and now as a member of the International Development Committee , I remain committed to taking forward her legacy , particularly on the responsibility to protect civilians , which is so urgent everywhere from Ukraine to Syria to Sudan . As Gordon said on the eve of the poll back in July , we have a choice in the UK and around the world : to succumb to pessimism or to embrace hopefulness and remember that , in Jo ’s words , “ we are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us . ”—[Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c. 675 . ] I will do my utmost , as long as I have the honour of representing the people of Hemel Hempstead , to push for a more hopeful future in our community , our country and our world .