My hon . Friend names a fantastic business in his constituency and the contribution that it makes . There is a lot more that we need to do to support smaller employers to be in a stronger position to benefit from apprenticeships . This Bill will bring together the many disparate parts of a very fragmented system , which employers , particularly smaller employers , often find hard to navigate the right way through , and are not always clear about the best training and qualification routes in order to find the people that they need . Also , the changes we have made to English and maths in particular will support employers to create 10,000 additional apprenticeships every single year . This was a call that we heard loud and clear from employers , and it is a simple , straightforward change that will open up opportunities for people across our country . They will still have the English and maths standards as part of their apprenticeship , but they will no longer be held back by some of the red tape that has denied them the chance to get on in life . The skills system that we have right now is too fragmented , too confusing and too tangled up across too many organisations . There is no single source of truth , no single organisation able to zoom out and see the big problems and no single authority able to bring the sector together to solve them . The result is a system that amounts to less than the sum of its parts . For young people , it can be hard to know where the opportunities lie . Adults looking to upskill or reskill and working people hoping for a fresh start are too often met with confusion , not clarity . They are presented with a muddling mix of options when they need clear pathways to great careers . It is no better for employers . They tell us that the system is difficult to navigate and slow to respond . They tell us that they are too often shut out of course design and that their voices are too often not heard . The result is frustration . Learners and employers are frustrated , and they are right to be frustrated . Many businesses do a good job of investing in the skills of their workforce , but others simply are not spending enough . Investment is at its lowest since 2011 at just half the EU average . We must empower businesses to reverse the trend by investing in their employees , and for that , we need to move forward . There will always remain a strong and galvanising role for competition , but where it is harmful , adds complexity , duplicates efforts or twists incentives , we will balance it with supportive co - ordination to ensure that all parts of the system are pulling in the right direction . Here is our vision and the change we need . From sidelined to supported , we need a system that helps everyone so that businesses can secure the skilled workforce they need . From fragmented to coherent , we need a system defined by clear and powerful pathways to success and towards effective co - ordination . We also need a system of partnership with everyone pulling together towards the same goals . That is the change that Skills England will oversee . This Labour Government are a mission - led Government with a plan for change , and skills are essential to Labour ’s missions to drive economic growth and break down the barriers to opportunity . In fact , skills go way beyond that . Skills training contributes across our society , and great skills training driven by Skills England , supported by my Department , guided by the wisdom of colleges , universities , businesses , mayors and trade unions , and directed by national priorities and local communities is the skills system we need . It is a system that will drive forward all our missions . It will help us fix our NHS , create clean energy and deliver safer streets . Skills are the fuel that will drive a decade of national renewal , which is vital for our plan for change . That is why earlier this month we unveiled our plans to help thousands more apprentices to qualify every year . That means more people with the right skills in high - demand sectors from social care to construction and beyond . We have listened to what businesses have told us . We will shorten the minimum length of apprenticeships and put employers in charge of decisions on English and maths requirements for adults . Last November , the Government announced £ 140 million of investment in homebuilding skills hubs . Once fully up to speed , the hubs will deliver more than 5,000 fast - track apprenticeships a year , helping to build the extra homes that the people of this country desperately need . We are driving change for our skills system , and Skills England is leading the charge . It will assess the skills needed on the ground regionally and nationally now and in the years to come . Where skills evolve rapidly and where new and exciting technologies are accelerating from AI to clean energy , Skills England will be ready to give employers the fast and flexible support they need .