I thank the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for raising this issue , and for presenting his argument in the way that he did . We have spoken about this case on a number of occasions , so he will know that I take responsibility for making sure that we make the correct decisions on ARAP . When I was on the Opposition Front Bench , where the right hon . Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) is now sitting , I raised concerns about the functioning of the ARAP scheme . In office , we have made changes to the scheme to make sure that it functions better , which I will come to . The hon . Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) mentioned communications , and I believe the right hon . Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) quoted the Secretary of State ’s comments on the Triples review , but I will address the issues raised by the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green in the first instance . I very much appreciate the right hon . Member ’s advocacy for the individual involved , and his passion for Afghan resettlement in general . He is absolutely right to say that we owe an obligation to the people who served alongside UK forces . What we have done with the ARAP scheme is implement as a nation , under the last Government and this one , probably the most generous Afghan relocation scheme of any of the allies that served in Afghanistan , and we have drawn a set of eligibility criteria that — with the exception of the Triples , which I will come to in a moment — have broadly remained the same under this Government and the preceding Government . I hear the right hon . Gentleman ’s concerns about elements of that , which I will seek to address . As a former Minister , he will know that I will not be able to address the individual circumstances of the case without permission , so I will make some more general remarks in respect of that individual case . However , I hope the right hon . Gentleman will not mind my saying that we have met previously on this matter , and I very much understand and appreciate his ongoing engagement . I have to be honest with him and say that when he and I first spoke about this case and I was briefed on it , I too was surprised by the decision that was made . That is why I undertook to take it back to the Department and to check on the eligibility of the case , which I did . Having done that , I am confident that the officials have followed the published criteria and applied them correctly to the evidence provided . The decision is appropriate and should stand . I should also be clear that there are no plans to ask to expand the criteria , which were implemented by the previous Government . I do , however , recognise the context of this particular matter , and I am happy to take up the right hon . Gentleman ’s challenge to see whether exceptional routes may be available . I do not want to give him false hope — I am not certain there will be such a route — but having spoken to him previously about this , I know the seriousness of the matter he raises , and I am happy to see whether we could look at additional opportunities to provide support in this case . When it comes to the published criteria for ARAP , we must be absolutely clear about eligibility , and it is my job as the Minister responsible for Afghan resettlement to make sure that decisions are made correctly against the published eligibility criteria . Where decisions have been made , an individual has access to a review , and where there is a concern over an individual ’s security while that review is ongoing — especially circumstances in which the life and safety of that individual are threatened — there is the ability to request an expedited decision . I entirely understand where the right hon . Gentleman is going with that argument . Under the criteria in the scheme we inherited from the previous Government , which we have continued , we have made the decision , with the exception of the Triples , to keep the eligibility decisions the same . Let me turn to the Triples , which the right hon . Gentleman raised . I believe that the quote of the Secretary of State when in opposition was in relation to the very concerning situation — I believe it was a concern to him and to me when in opposition — that decisions were made in respect of the Afghan special forces , the Triples , that were inconsistent with the evidence that was being provided . We backed and called for the Triples review , which was initiated by my predecessor in the previous Government . Phase 1 of that review has now completed and we have achieved an overturn rate of around 30 % . A written ministerial statement on that was published — I think last month — should the right hon . Gentleman want to refer to the full details . In that work , we interrogated the data that was available . The record - keeping of that period was not good enough , as I have said from the Dispatch Box a number of times since taking office . As part of that trawl , we discovered information in relation to top - up payments , which previously had been excluded from the criteria because they did not constitute the relationship with the UK Government that would have created eligibility . Our belief is that the way those top - up payments were applied may now constitute a relationship that needs to be re - examined , so phase 2 of the Triples review , which will be the final phase of the review , is looking at top - up payments . It was right to do that , because there was a clear point . In the case raised by the right hon . Member for Chingford and Woodford Green , I am very happy to try to see what is available to support it . I feel very deeply that we need to honour our obligations to those people who served alongside our forces , from the Afghan translators and interpreters who live in the constituency I represent , to the people who fought , and in some cases died , alongside our forces . The ARAP scheme is a generous scheme , but it was not intended , at its point of initiation or now , to cover all Afghans who fought in that conflict over 20 years . It was designed to support those who we can evidence had a close connection to UK forces , often defined by a contractual or payment relationship — in blunt plain - English terms — where a sizeable commitment has been made . That draws a line for some individuals who were employed by the Afghan national army , the Afghan Government and elements of the security structures that the Afghan Government had at that time , for which eligibility is not created despite their role . The Taliban regime has created chaos , instability and terror through many communities in Afghanistan since our departure . That is why , as a Government , we are trying to accelerate and deliver the Afghan scheme . The hon . Member for North East Fife mentioned communications . That is entirely right . It is something I have been raising since becoming a Minister . We will introduce , from the autumn , a new series of communications designed to help people understand where their application is in the process . The new performance indicators will kick in from September time — roughly in the autumn — and that will seek to help people to understand where they are in the process . There is concern around understanding for how long a case will be dealt with . I also hope the performance indicators will have time - bound targets to help people be able to rate the performance of the Ministry of Defence . Certainly , when the Defence Secretary published his statement on the Afghan resettlement scheme at the end of last year , he made the case that we need to complete our obligation and bring the schemes to a close , and it is our objective to do so .