Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to my hon . Friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) for such a passionate maiden speech . She will be an excellent representative for her constituency . It is a privilege to stand here to give my own as the first woman to represent Knowsley in Parliament . My predecessor , Sir George Howarth , served Knowsley with dedication for over three decades . In his maiden speech , he promised to “ shout and make a fuss”—[Official Report , 26 November 1986 ; Vol . 106 , c. 289 . ] for his constituents . He certainly kept that promise , serving not only as a loyal constituency MP but as a Northern Ireland Minister under a Labour Government . I have another illustrious predecessor : the MP for Huyton from 1950 to 1983 , Harold Wilson , who served as a Labour Prime Minister . Harold transformed our economy and industry , founded the Open University , and started us on the long road to equality that we are still travelling . He left a more equal society than he inherited , one in which far fewer got by on too little . I am so honoured to follow in his footsteps . Knowsley made me who I am . I was born and raised in Cantril Farm , a so - called slum clearance estate . My nan lived in the flats there , and I went to Brookside school , where my auntie Jean was a cleaner . My dad worked at Ford , on the production line , and with his secure , well - paid , unionised job , my mum and dad could give me a better life than they had had . Then , as a teenager , I got jobs in Liverpool , in Brian ’s diner on Stanley Street , and at the Beatles shop , where I met Paul McCartney a few times . I started club nights where I DJ’d , and one of them — Liquidation — is still going . However , I am here today as a proud trade unionist . It is the trade unions that built the Labour party . I am proud to be a member of Unite and the GMB , and I am proud to be a former political director of Unite and adviser to the general secretary of the TUC . The unions are my second family , and it is because of them that I have come from the council estate to the parliamentary estate . I know why I am here : to speak for my class , the working class . I will not forget who I am or where I came from . It is my duty to stand up for the people of Knowsley and to champion our strengths — our dignity , our resilience and our sense of community . I will never talk down my part of the world or its people . Our streets are soundtracked by the La ’s and China Crisis . Our parks and estates have nurtured footballing legends such as Peter Reid and Steven Gerrard . We have produced the finest writers and actors of my class : Alan Bleasdale , Phil Redmond , Sue Johnston , and Stephen Graham . They all showcase Knowsley ’s creative talent . Last Friday I met Lord Derby at Knowsley Hall , the place that gave my constituency its name . The so - called local toff and the former council estate kid spoke about how we can work together for the betterment of Knowsley . Knowsley Hall , where Shakespeare performed for Queen Elizabeth I , still represents our rich heritage , now revived by the Shakespeare North playhouse . Nowadays , alongside the people of Knowsley , I count as constituents two tigers , six lions , 11 rhinos , and a horde of cheeky monkeys who will take the wipers off your car at the safari park . In modern manufacturing , the Jaguar Land Rover car plant in Halewood not only provides jobs across my constituency , but is currently at the forefront of electrification . We have 100 - year - old family firms with solid apprenticeships that lead to skilled jobs , such as JJ Smith and Hemsec , pioneers in net zero construction . I will fight for investment in firms like these and jobs to take pride in , which can provide a good life . I am proud of Knowsley , but I will always be honest about what stands in our way . Knowsley is the second most deprived constituency in the country . When Governments have walked away from us and left us to manage decline , we have picked ourselves up and helped one another through sheer force of will , determination , resilience and solidarity . We now have a Government who will not walk away , a Labour Government who are on our side . In Knowsley , we have great women who lead community institutions that take care of our people every day , such as Rachael Jones at One Knowsley , Marie Stewart at Southdene community centre , Jackie Croft at Centre 63 , Pam Richards at the Safari Kids Club , Caroline Grant at The First Step , and Margaret Roche at SHARe . In 1986 , when my predecessor took his place , only 6 % of school leavers in Knowsley got a job . That kind of unemployment scars families for generations . We have never recovered from the devastation of deindustrialisation under Thatcher and 14 years of austerity . We still face lower wages , higher poverty and fewer opportunities , and we need secure , unionised jobs on decent wages so that people can get by and their kids can get on . It is not much to ask , but it is everything . That is why Labour ’s plan — the new deal for working people — is so close to my heart . It will be the greatest transformation in rights at work in a generation . In Knowsley we dream big , but the opportunities are not always there . Teachers and school staff in Knowsley work incredibly hard , but the fact is that there is no A - level provision in my constituency . No child should grow up under a Labour Government thinking that they are not good enough to do an A - level , and I will do everything I can to change that , alongside delivering more and better apprenticeships . My politics is the politics of people and of the shop floor , the bus stop , the school gate and the supermarket . From Huyton and Kirby to Prescot , from Stockbridge village to Knowsley village , and from the Johns estate to the Tower Hill estate , I say to my constituents : “ You are my priority . I will not take you for granted . It is the honour of my life to serve you , and I will do my very best for you . ” I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I pay tribute to my hon . Friends the Members for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) who gave excellent speeches , showing real love for their communities . I look forward to serving alongside them in the years ahead — country first , party second . I know others may think it is the case for them , but must admit to the House that I have the immense privilege of representing the most beautiful constituency in Wales , and therefore the entirety of the United Kingdom . From the spires of St Davids cathedral , to the classic car shows in Cresswell Quay , Dobby ’s grave in the sand dunes of Freshwater West , and the pastel - coloured houses in Tenby , Pembrokeshire is iconic . Even the little - known playwright William Shakespeare posed the question as to how Wales was made so happy as to inherit such a haven . If that were not enough , Lord Nelson declaimed that we have the finest port in Christendom . That is praise indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . We have been discussing constitutional reform extensively in this debate and Pembrokeshire has always been interwoven with the story of our individual , but united , four nations : the Welsh monk Asser summoned by Alfred the Great to leave the great settlement of St Davids to advise him at court ; the birth of Henry Tudor in Pembroke Castle who would later return from exile to land his army near Dale and march to Bosworth Field ; and the siege of Pembroke castle by Oliver Cromwell in almost the final act of the English civil war , beginning a period of 12 years of the protectorate reigning supreme . Since my election on 4 July , some of the more charitable correspondents have taken the opportunity to observe that I am a slightly unusual person to be a Labour MP . I come from a farming family and there were not many Vote Labour posters around where I grew up , but times have changed and , as the son of a fierce , strong and wonderful Welsh woman , who is in the Public Gallery today , I was proud to be part of the red wave that subsumed Pembrokeshire , Wales and our United Kingdom . My wife and I chose Pembrokeshire as our home . I chose to join the Labour party , and now , perhaps to my father ’s despair , I choose to vote and do away with hereditary peers . I say sorry to my dad , who is sitting in the Public Gallery today , but I am here to serve the many , not the few . Talking of family , I wish to acknowledge my wife , Poppy . It is not fun being a political spouse — not that I would know — and she has bigger fish to fry in the law courts . She has been a tower of strength — a real and meaningful support — and I am so grateful that she is on this journey with me . We do not get to this place alone , and I want to thank all those true believers who stood with me and campaigned in the rain , the sleet and the snow , on the beaches , across farms and across our many rural communities to deliver a Labour MP and a Labour Government . I am grateful to them all . As with the history , the experiences and the tribulations of the great figures of Pembrokeshire ’s history , our county has seen its fortunes rise and fall . The fishing industry was once the largest in our United Kingdom . The establishment of the Royal Naval Dockyard during the Napoleonic wars in Pembroke Dock cemented our county ’s military legacy , which lives on to this day in Brawdy barracks and Castlemartin range . The latter part of the 20th century saw the rise of the oil industry and the transformation of Pembrokeshire ’s economic fortunes , with four oil refineries on stream by the early 1970s . Oil has given way to gas , and the Port of Milford now has two liquefied natural gas terminals , one gas - fired power station and one oil refinery . More than 20 % of the UK ’s energy comes through the port . With the rise of renewable energy and the potential for floating offshore wind in the Celtic sea , we are in a unique position to give true meaning to the term a “ just transition ” . We have the talent , the skillset , the resources , and I will use my voice in this House at every given opportunity to ensure that Pembrokeshire will not only benefit from but spearhead the industries of the future . On the subject of fortunes rising and falling , I wish to pay tribute to my predecessors , Simon Hart and Stephen Crabb . Both were dedicated servants of the good people of Pembrokeshire and had long and successful careers in this House . They flew high , with both serving as Secretary of State for Wales and holding other Cabinet positions . Their most notable acts were Stephen ’s bid to be Prime Minister and Simon ’s unenviable task of holding together a fragmented Tory party as Chief Whip . I wish them both well , and I hope that Simon , the quintessential countryman , can find time for his alternative pursuits , given that his favoured sport has become something of a bête noire for my party . As I bring my maiden speech to a close , I wish to paraphrase the words of a man greater than me and one who has already been mentioned in this debate : the inspirational and history - making Harold Wilson . He said that the party on the Government Benches is driven every day by “ a moral crusade ” and that , without that mission , that purpose and that cause , we are nothing . In my county , where we have the highest child poverty rates in Wales , those words are as true now as they were then . I will use my time in this House to fight for fairness , to deliver real change and to stand up for all the people who live , learn and work in the wonderful community that sent me to Parliament . The work is urgent , the time for action is now , and I am here to serve .