I will be brief , but I am very pleased to be able to speak in this debate as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos islands , which last week had its 103rd meeting . It has been ably supported by David Snoxell , the former British high commissioner to Mauritius , who has done incredible work with his knowledge of and empathy for the Chagossian people . There are two former chairs of the group in the Committee at the moment — the hon . Members for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) and for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane)—and the former Member for Crawley was also chair of the group at one time . We founded that group a long time ago to listen to , and take action in support of , the Chagos islanders , who were angry that they had been forcibly removed from their homes , angry at the way they had been treated by successive British Governments , and very angry at the initial decision that was taken and the sheer brutality that went with it . To give Members a brief example , in 1973 a 20 - year - old Chagossian woman , Liseby Elysé , while carrying her unborn child , was forcibly removed from the Chagos island of Peros Banhos . She lost her unborn child soon after her traumatic upheaval and the journey , and she and her husband survived with considerable uncertainty and in very precarious living conditions , like all other Chagossians . However , 45 years later , in 2018 , she represented her community at The Hague when she spoke about her life and her losses . Her story was compelling and memorable , like those of so many other Chagos islanders , because of the personal horror , trauma and abuse that they suffered . They have always demanded and fought for their right of return , and that is the central core of what the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos islands has done . I realise there are now different opinions in the group about the sovereignty or otherwise of the islands , but there has always been a fundamental agreement on the right of return . That led to massive legal actions , which were bravely fought by the Chagos islanders with very little support . There were a few people such as Richard Gifford , their solicitor , who were fantastic in their support . Eventually , we gathered wider support , and we got favourable decisions at all levels of justice around the world , including at the United Nations General Assembly . It is worth recalling , as many Members have done , the 1965 decision made by Harold Wilson , then Prime Minister . In offering Mauritius its independence , he came to this extraordinarily complicated deal , which essentially involved the United States getting a base on Diego Garcia and , in return , Mauritius getting its independence . Somewhere along the line , as the hon . Member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) pointed out , there would either be a discount on the next generation of nuclear weapons , or free delivery of weapons at some point in the future . A lot of this was shrouded in mystery , in the private conversations between Wilson and Prime Minister Ramgoolam at the time , so there is a lot of confusion surrounding that . Somewhere at that time the idea was to set up the British Indian Ocean Territory , and somewhere at that time the decision was made that the archipelago — including Peros Banhos , which is a considerable distance from Diego Garcia — would be separated from Mauritius as well and that it would have to be depopulated , hence the utter brutality of the removal of the entire population from the islands . So the question that many Members have brought up is this : should the Chagos islands be separate from Mauritius or part of Mauritius ? Interestingly , during the 1965 discussions Mauritius never accepted the separation . It never accepted that the Chagos islands should be separated either constitutionally or in any other way from Mauritius . As we know , the decision was basically forced on the Mauritians in return for their independence . We now have a situation in which we have finally got a treaty . It has its imperfections — of that everyone is agreed . Personally , I am less than happy about the idea of a massive military base on Diego Garcia , and even less happy that it might be there in 100 years ’ time . However , a treaty has been agreed that will ensure the right of Chagos islanders to return to the Chagos islands , but unfortunately only a limited right of return to Diego Garcia itself . I am looking forward to the Minister ’s speech , and I would be grateful if was able to say a bit more about the rights of access to Diego Garcia for Chagos islanders , their right to visit the church and the graves of their ancestors , and whether there is some possibility of a degree of residence on Diego Garcia . There is no other place in the world where a military base is surrounded by an entirely depopulated area , in this case an island , and I would be grateful if the Minister was able to say something about that . We have fought for the right of return . I fully understand that Chagos islanders — some resident here , some in the Seychelles , many in Mauritius , and others in a diaspora all around the world , in France and many other places — probably all have different views and different memories , but in the surveys that were done when this issue was discussed at great length about 10 years ago , they were all in favour of the right of return . The issue of sovereignty under Mauritius was not really a great feature of those discussions , although it appears to be now . We should listen to the Chagos Refugees Group , based in Mauritius and led brilliantly by Olivier Bancoult , who has been through every court case . Indeed , he started the whole process of demanding the right of return , which has eventually been successfully achieved . The statement that the Chagos Refugees Group made last week said : “ The Agreement therefore meets the aim of our community to be reunited with our Islands . It has been concluded after nearly 3 years of negotiation between Mauritius and the UK and extensive consultation . Unless , therefore , the Agreement is approved and implemented , our exile will continue with no hope of restoring our fundamental human right to return . It was the creation of BIOT on 8 June 1965 , 60 years ago , which led to our exile . ” We are seeing another page in the dramatic history of the Indian ocean . Surely we should recognise the human rights of the people who were so disgracefully treated by Britain — and by the United States , but principally by Britain . They , at last , will see some degree of justice and the ability to return to their islands . I hope , when the Minister replies , that he will be able to give me some hope and comfort on the question of access to Diego Garcia , and also explain why it is necessary to have these incredibly long leases for the US to continue its operations on Diego Garcia . It seems to me that we should be working towards the Indian ocean being an ocean of peace , not an ocean of conflict between rival powers .