Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . It is an honour to make my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Cannock Chase , my home . Having listened to many maiden speeches from all parts of the House , I have to say that I am honoured to be part of an incredibly talented intake — not that I am at all biased . I also have the privilege of following some outstanding predecessors who are fondly remembered by my constituents . The best known is the late , great Jennie Lee who represented the former Cannock constituency for 25 years and also served as Minister for the Arts , playing a key role in the foundation of the Open University . Jennie was recently cited by the Chancellor as one of her political heroes and a contender to replace Nigel Lawson ’s portrait in her office . Alongside her husband , the equally incomparable Aneurin Bevan , Jennie is commemorated across the constituency , including Jennie Lee Way in Rugeley and the Bevan Lee estate in Cannock . I could not speak about past Members for Cannock Chase without paying tribute to my Labour predecessor , Dr Tony Wright , who served as MP for Cannock and Burntwood and later Cannock Chase from 1992 until 2010 . Tony was the epitome of a dedicated constituency MP . Constituents regularly speak warmly of Tony and he won votes from across the political spectrum . If I can be half the MP Tony was , I will be able to look back on my time in this House with pride . I would also like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Dame Amanda Milling , who served our constituency for nine years . Amanda is praised by both supporters and detractors alike for her efficient approach to casework , which I know would be the envy of many MPs ’ offices . Amanda served as a Government Whip for many years — not an easy job — and as Minister for Asia and the Middle East . I understand that Amanda also chaired the group of female Conservative MPs and was a passionate advocate of programmes that encourage women to stand for election . I may not have often agreed with Amanda politically , but I have always found her to be fair - minded , kind and decent , so I genuinely wish her all the best for the future . When people hear the words “ Cannock Chase ” , they naturally think of the stunning forest that is the constituency ’s namesake . While making their first speeches , many new Members have claimed their constituency as the most beautiful in the land . However , I have to point out that my constituency is the only one in England that shares its name with an area of outstanding natural beauty — facts are facts ! But the Chase is not just a place with serene walks and herds of fallow deer , although we have plenty of both . It is also a place of industry , sport and recreation . The Chase is still a working forest , managed by Forestry England , which produces around 19,000 tonnes of sustainable timber every year . The Chase is arguably most famous as a national destination for mountain bikers . As someone who could barely stay upright on fresh tarmac , the conversations I have had about mountain biking have probably been the steepest learning curve I have been on since the general election . But I look forward to working with bikers and Forestry England to build on the legacy of the 2022 Commonwealth games and make sure that unauthorised trails do not spoil the natural beauty of the forest . The Chase is a vibrant place with a huge range of activities , including the high ropes and free falls of Go Ape at Birches valley . I place on record an open invitation to the right hon . Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who , four months on from the general election campaign , must be suffering from zipline withdrawal . The iron - age hill fort of Castle Ring and the Chase ’s former status as a royal hunting forest attest to its rich 12,000 - year history . More recently , soldiers were trained on the Chase , including J.R.R. Tolkien , who was stationed there in 1916 , and who may have drawn from it inspiration for the great forests in his legendary books . However , as my constituents would be keen to remind us all , there is much more to Cannock Chase than our forest . Our tight - knit communities are home to organisations that we are immensely proud of . Charities such as Cherishers , Help a Squaddie , Catherine Care and Newlife are the best of Cannock Chase , bursting with dedicated staff and volunteers who selflessly give their time . The construction , retail and education sectors are the biggest employers locally — unsurprisingly , given that our three main towns of Cannock , Hednesford and Rugeley enjoy a strategic position on A roads and on a busy railway line . Cannock has the headquarters of Finning , the world ’s largest dealer of Caterpillar construction equipment , as well as the west midlands designer outlet village . Nevertheless , my constituency is not just urban and industrial ; it is also semi - rural , with around a third of our land being agricultural . Clustered around the villages of Slitting Mill , Prospect Village , Cannock Wood , Wimblebury , Norton Canes and Heath Hayes is a tapestry of farms . Many of these communities feel left behind — last in the queue for infrastructure and services that other areas take for granted . A lack of access to GPs and bus services is frequently raised by my constituents in rural areas . We are also home to many businesses in the food supply chain , from processors to distributors . Because of those constituency interests , as well as my passion for the sector , I am delighted to be getting stuck into my role on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . Interspersed between houses , factories and nature reserves are small remnants of the once dominant coalmining industry , some of which are conscientiously preserved as much loved reminders of our proud mining heritage . While we do not want to see a return to coalmining , our towns and villages long for the secure jobs , social fabric and sense of common identity that characterised coalfield communities for centuries . The sudden closure of Rugeley power station in 2016 signalled a final move away from coal . The now cleared site is soon to be renewed , with a new community of hundreds of homes , a school and a new park , which will alleviate flooding from the River Trent . Following the very welcome and long overdue return of the mineworkers ’ pension scheme investment reserve to hundreds of families in my constituency , I look forward to working with the Government and others to bring investment and renewal to communities across Cannock Chase . Deciding what to say in a maiden speech leads us to reflect on what brought us to this extraordinary place , and what we hope to achieve for the people who sent us here . For me personally , it is momentous to be standing here , because 20 years ago I was a painfully shy young boy in the corner of the playground with my head buried in a book , trying as hard as I could to be invisible to the bullies who tormented me for a sexuality that , at that age , I did not yet understand . Today , I stand here proudly as a Member of this House . If I achieve just one thing in my new job , I hope it is to show young people who are in the position that I was in that your bullies do not define you , nor do they limit what you go on to achieve . I also hope to make my mark in other ways . Alongside my incredible husband , I am an adoptive parent to a beautiful four - year - old daughter , and foster carer to an equally beautiful nine - week - old baby boy , so adoption , permanence and our care leavers are all passions of mine . Having been a councillor in my constituency for over five years , I am and will always be a fierce advocate for local councils and the tangible difference that they make to our communities . Given that my constituency has the highest proportion of people who commute by car in the whole of England , I know that a priority must be to fix the potholes . I am delighted that the Government are committed to both devolution and decent roads . As a proud member of the Co - operative party , I am always keen to promote democratic ownership . Communities in rural and coalfield areas know more than most the value of clubbing together and giving everyone a stake in the places and services that they rely on . It is safe to say that I have lots on my to - do list , which is hardly groundbreaking for an MP , but I must finish by thanking the people who have enabled me to serve my home of Cannock Chase in this House . If it takes a village to raise a child , it takes a whole town to win an election campaign . I thank the Cannock Chase Labour party and all the volunteers who contributed to our record - breaking result . I thank my incredible family , many of whom are in the Gallery . They have helped me to overcome so much in my life , and they have put up with a lot ; I am sure that many Members ’ families can relate to that . The final thanks go , of course , to the people of Cannock Chase for giving me the opportunity to fight for our towns and villages . I will go on as I have started , repaying that trust with action and hard work for as long as they keep me here .