Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I congratulate my hon . Friends the Members for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) , for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) and for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) on their excellent contributions today — my thanks to them all . It is the honour of my life to have been elected as the Member of Parliament for Bangor Aberconwy , and I offer my heartfelt thanks to everyone who supported me on my journey to this place : to my partner and my two kids , who I will not name — because my entry into the world of politics has already caused them enough embarrassment as it is — to my brother Mike , my sister Pam , my nieces and nephews , and all my friends back home ; and to my dad , who is watching from the Gallery today , something that would never have been possible were it not for the incredible staff of Ysbyty Gwynedd , who have saved his life on more than one occasion . I want to thank my incredible campaign team , my agent Jim Hoey and Ken Stevens . I also pay tribute to the late Councillor Bill Chapman , who is very sorely missed . Without his encouragement much earlier in my career , I would not be here today . Bangor Aberconwy encompasses the former constituency of Aberconwy , as well as parts of what were Arfon and Clywd West . I thank all three of my predecessors , and their staff , for all their work in the support of local residents . Robin Millar served as the Member for Aberconwy from 2019 . I know that his work supporting hoteliers during the pandemic was very much appreciated . David Jones served as the Member of Parliament for Clywd West and served in the role as Secretary of State for Wales during his time here . Hywel Williams served as the Member of Parliament for Arfon and the previous Caernarfon constituency for over 23 years — a Member who was and still is very well respected by the communities that he served . I also pay special tribute to Betty Williams , who served as the Labour MP for Conwy from 1997 to 2010 . She is a real Labour legend who is still remembered with huge fondness locally . If I can be half as good an MP as Betty was , I will be doing okay . I have listened to many maiden speeches and noted that there is hot competition for whose constituency is the most beautiful in all the land — I am sorry , but game on ! Bangor Aberconwy includes the seaside resort of Llandudno , the historic town of Conwy , Betws - y - Coed , Bangor pier , the Carneddau mountains , the Dyffryn Ogwen valley — too many beautiful places to name . I must , of course , mention my hometown of Penmaenmawr , which was the favoured holiday destination of Prime Minister William Gladstone , and my adopted home of Llanfairfechan . I have noticed , too , that it is customary to elaborate on one ’s political roots — childhood memories of being dragged along to party meetings or folding leaflets at the kitchen table — but I am afraid that was not me . Politics was not really discussed in our house . For our family , direct action meant going out with a bucket and torch to rescue frogs . Largely thanks to my mother , my formative years were spent bird watching , pond dipping , bat counting and on long mountain walks . My mum knew the value of our natural world and how vital it is that we protect it . I will make it my mission in this place to do so in her memory . When I was 11 , my mum ’s life changed . She enrolled on an access course , did A - levels , then graduated with a degree in botany — no mean feat with three young kids . The fact that she was able to access higher education is testament not only to the last Labour Government , but to the grit and determination of working people in our community . To understand why is to learn the founding story of Bangor University : 140 years ago tomorrow , on 18 October 1884 , Bangor University opened its doors to its first ever cohort of students . Bangor University , the first in north Wales , was not founded by rich benefactors or philanthropists , but quarrymen and farmers who believed in the transformative power of education . They set aside money from their wages every week because they knew then , as we know now , that education is the way to get on in life . Our story is one of resilience and of people who believe in supporting each other . All across Bangor Aberconwy , you will find incredible people who work hard day in , day out to support others in our community — people like Jaynie Black and the volunteers at Ty Hapus ; Ginnie Rogers and the Friends of Mostyn Street ; Brenda at Hope Restored ; the wonderful women I met last week at Dyma Ni Befriending ; Pobl i Bobl ; Maes Ni ; Hwb Ogwen ; our food banks , our churches and our mosques ; and our town , city and community councillors . There are too many to mention , but we owe them all a huge debt of thanks . Diolch o galon i chi gyd . [ Translation : Heartfelt thanks to you all . ] I am proud to be part of a Labour Government who are firmly on the side of working people . I am proud to be part of a Labour Government who are committed to breaking down the barriers to opportunity for young people growing up in communities like ours . And I am proud to be part of a Labour Government who understand that tackling the climate and nature crisis is not only the biggest challenge we face , but an opportunity for economic growth . The subject of today ’s debate is this week ’s record - breaking international investment summit . Before coming to this place , I spent my career working with start - ups and SMEs , so I know how important economic and political stability is for business . Under this new Government , Britain is truly the best place to do business , and there is huge potential in our corner of Wales ready to be unleashed . We have a proud industrial history ; a wealth of talent in science and technology ; and wind , waves and mountain ranges . Everywhere you look , you will find ingenuity and innovation , and communities full of pride , purpose and potential . To finish , I am proud of our past and I am excited for our future . Whether you live in Penmaenmawr or Pwllglas , Bangor or Bontuchel , Conwy or Cerrigydrudion , I will fight tooth and nail to bring investment to our area , while promoting our Welsh language and culture , to make sure that our young people know that these opportunities exist and are for them . There is much to do , and it will not happen overnight , but I hope to do every single one of my constituents proud .