I congratulate the hon . Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) on his excellent maiden speech , which is difficult to follow . I gently say that it is marred only by the fact that he did not reference two of his most famous constituents : William Kidd , the pirate , and my mother , who was born in Houston . Thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allowing me to take part in this important debate at the dawn of this new Parliament . I also thank my colleagues for their wise counsel and help as I take my first steps here in the cockpit of democracy . Defence is the No . 1 task of any Government , as we have heard , and I am proud that my constituency , Dumfries and Galloway , has many fine young men and women currently in our armed forces , and many gallant veterans who have served on air , sea and land . Of course , like every constituency , Dumfries and Galloway has many people working in the UK ’s world - class defence industry , which deserves our support . I worry about using the expression “ punching above our weight ” in relation to our armed forces . A British major general who served with distinction in Afghanistan , and who knows a lot more about conflict and boxing than I do , told me , “ That ’s a recipe for getting knocked out as soon as the bell rings . ” I pay tribute to my predecessor , Alister Jack . I make it clear that , although such praise is customary on these occasions , I offer tribute not out of duty but out of genuine respect and admiration . As a special adviser , I had a front - row seat for Alister ’s tour - de - force performance as Secretary of State for Scotland . Under his leadership , the Scotland Office , small but perfectly formed — not unlike myself — was a bantamweight bazooka , bang on target for the people of Scotland on issues including equality , the independence debate and the benighted A75 and A77 roads that are so crucial to Dumfries and Galloway . I hope I can apply the lessons learned at the feet of the master for the betterment of Dumfries and Galloway . I got the finest start possible there and I want to make sure others get the same chances . Only through marrying the talent and aspiration that abound in the south - west of Scotland with opportunities can we defeat that blight on all rural areas : depopulation . We need the three J ’s : jobs , jobs , jobs . We have much work to do to make ours a go - to destination , not a go - through destination . Blessed with a balmy climate , we are home to some of the country ’s finest dairy herds . Our unspoiled landscape is a tourism dream . The terrain , for instance around Newton Stewart and Minnigaff , is ideal for cycling . The Merrick , the Cairnsmore of Fleet and the Galloway hills are a delight for hikers . Stroll on the beach at Killantringan — I will help Hansard with the spelling later — on the rugged Rhins peninsula , and you will probably have the golden strand all to yourself , and you will see our Northern Irish friends in this great Union just 14 miles distant . Dumfries itself , astride the mighty Nith , is rightly lauded as the “ Queen of the South ” . Erudite Wigtown is Scotland ’s national book town , and there I picked up a copy of “ If ” , arguably the finest work by Rudyard Kipling . His lines , “ If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster And treat those two impostors just the same ” , resonate now on the Government Benches , where Labour Members are having a moment in the sun , but also on the Opposition Benches , where the blue flame of Conservativism gutters in the storm , burns low , but does not go out . Many suppose “ If ” to be about Kipling ’s son , John , who was tragically killed serving with the Irish Guards in the great war . In fact , it was inspired by Leander Starr Jameson , who grew up in my home town of Stranraer , after his father took editorship of the Wigtownshire Free Press . That venerable newspaper is still in circulation , and I got my first and last journalism jobs there , as a trainee reporter and latterly as editor . Jameson led a daring raid against the South African Republic in 1896 . Perhaps there is something in the pristine waters of south - west Scotland that instils a resilience and self - reliance in its people , for John Paul Jones , father of the United States navy , was also a native Gallovidian . Jones unfortunately went pirate on us in the American revolution . Locked in mortal combat with the Royal Navy off Flamborough Head in 1779 , he is reputed to have said : “ Surrender ? I have not yet begun to fight ! ” I am proud , then , to have been elected to represent the redoubtable people of Dumfries and Galloway , inheritors of Jameson ’s alacrity and Jones ’s never - say - die attitude , both vital in today ’s febrile times . In conclusion , Bonnie Gallowa ’ has a storied past and , I am determined , a bright future . I shall endeavour , as Kipling did n’t quite put it , to keep the heid .