Eight months ago , in my maiden speech to Parliament , I said that Fiona Laskaris would succeed in changing the law that prevented her from saving her autistic son , Christopher , from murder . I am here today to honour that commitment . We are on the cusp of changing the law . We have got this far thanks to the National Autistic Society ; MPs from across the Chamber working together to overcome injustice , including the right hon . Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , the hon . Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , the right hon . Member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) and my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) ; steadfast support from my party , the Liberal Democrats , and support from the Prime Minister and the Government , in a way that represents Parliament at its best ; and Elisa Menendez and Romilly Weeks from ITV , who ran the story . Above all , we got this far because of the courage and determination of Fiona Laskaris to save others from the fate that befell her son , Christopher . Fiona and Cara , Christopher ’s sister , are in the Gallery . Christopher was not unlike many autistic children . He was a sensitive , intelligent , loving and compassionate boy , who once asked his mum to stop on the way to school to rescue a lamb that was stuck in a fence . I first met Fiona when I was eight . I stayed in my bedroom and ignored her , perhaps because I was angry that she was buying my home off my dad ; my mum had died when I was a few months old , and I was a sensitive boy . Well , they moved in ; Christopher grew up in my old bedroom , and he loved the house as much as I did , but as a young man living alone in Leeds , he struggled . Despite Fiona pleading for help for years , she was never able to attain for him the mental capacity assessment that he needed to determine his support requirements . Horrifically , he was exploited and murdered by a man who had just been released from jail . Christopher was 24 . We are working with the Government on an amendment to the Bill to ensure that the views of family members are considered when determining an adult ’s requirements for a mental capacity assessment . Christopher ’s story is not unique . King ’s College London found that in 2022 alone , there were 95 preventable deaths of people with autism and learning disabilities in cases in which the Mental Capacity Act 2005 had not been correctly followed . It can be hard to grasp the scale of the special educational needs and disabilities crisis in this country , but tens of thousands of SEND children are out of school , including 1,800 in Surrey alone . We are losing autistic children , including my constituent Jennifer Chalkley , to avoidable suicide , and , at worst , we are abandoning autistic people in their 20s to murderers ; we are failing a generation . How we answer their call for justice will serve as a measure of who we are , and I believe the answer is less a matter of money than of leadership . We know from Nobel laureate James Heckman that early intervention is exponentially more effective and economical in today ’s brutalised system , which has cost the lives of Christopher , Jennifer and too many others . Although this amendment is only a small part of the answer , it can save lives . If one grieving mother can change the law , perhaps we can change the other things , too . If we succeed , it will be above all because of the voices of broken but unbeaten parents , like Fiona , demanding change . Although Christopher had a difficult life , he had the most precious thing that any man can have : a loving and devoted mum . It is up to us to ensure that Fiona is a witness that in our country , it is possible for the vulnerable to be heard , for injustice to be overcome , and to find , beyond grief , hope .