Let me make some progress before I take interventions . Earlier this year , we announced the largest ever investment in childcare in England ’s history . Very soon , we will be spending £ 8 billion a year . That investment will ensure that every child gets the best start in life . It means that working parents will be entitled to 30 hours of free childcare from the end of parental leave until their child starts school . To give parents the flexibility they need , we are rolling out universal wraparound childcare for primary school children from 8 am to 6 pm . These Conservative policies will end the choice that some working mums and dads feel they need to make between having a family and having a career , and it will save parents up to £ 6,500 a year . The generation having children now will not remember what was on offer under Labour , but let me remind the House : 13 years of Labour delivered only 12.5 hours of free childcare for some three and four - year - olds . That is less than one hour for every year in office . Our childcare package gives people wanting to start a family the confidence to do so . May I invite the right hon . Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , when she stands at the Dispatch Box , to finally offer Labour ’s support for our record childcare investment ? Can she tell hard - working parents in Wales why her party is not rolling out the same support that English parents will benefit from ? I know that the right hon . Lady , like me , did not grow up with privilege . I have heard her speak eloquently and passionately about the help and support she received from Sure Start , and I know she was grateful for that support . I am sure there were many positives from that programme — indeed , my best friend used to run a Sure Start centre — but there were also some serious failings in the design and delivery . First , Sure Start was not a universal offer , and it stigmatised people who used the services . Plus , it only helped families for the first five years of a child ’s life , but any parent will say that challenges can arise at any time . [ Interruption . ] This is important : the National Audit Office found that Sure Start had failed to target the most disadvantaged families and was even unable to identify families needing support in the most disadvantaged 30 % of communities . It simply did not reach the right people . When we launched our family hubs programme , we ensured that the hubs provided a service to anyone who needed it . They are supporting families with everything from mental health to breastfeeding , and housing and debt services — challenges that many of us need support with . The service is universal , available to anyone . Family hubs support families with children of all ages , from conception to 19 , or up to 25 for those with special educational needs . They join up services , ensuring that every family gets the right support at the right time . As part of that , the best start for life programme provides focused support during the crucial first 1,001 days of a child ’s life , and I pay tribute to my right hon . Friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) for her work to get that right . Before I talk about how we have transformed our schools , I will address one of the key challenges we face in delivering opportunity : school attendance . I will in a moment , honestly , but this is important . I want to address one of the key challenges we face , which is school attendance . Following the pandemic , we have seen a phenomenon where more children are staying home and not going to school . That challenge is not unique to the UK . At the G7 , my counterparts from the US to Japan were all grappling with the same issue . I reassure the House that it is a top priority . We are making progress through our attendance hubs and mentoring programmes , as well as more specialised support for key cohorts , such as those with mental health issues or special educational needs . In just the past year , 380,000 fewer children are persistently absent , and we will keep driving at this issue until all our children are back in school . I notice that the Labour party had a lot to say about attendance this morning , but the hon . Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) may have missed the 380,000 fewer children persistently absent in the past year . Yet again , Labour offers little more than empty words , with a touch of student politics . In Labour - run Wales , attendance rates are still far behind those in England . Last year ’s attendance data showed that Wales only managed an attendance rate of 85.5 % , compared with England ’s 92.5 % . That means that English children are benefiting from well over a week more education than those just over the border . I advise the Labour party to spend a little less time playing politics , and more time helping children . The children of Wales deserve better .