I am honoured to make my maiden address during this debate on carer ’s allowance . We all know people who are working tirelessly to care for loved ones . Indeed , making life better for those who sacrifice so much was one of the main reasons I made the decision to run for election to this place . In Weston - super - Mare , it has been a privilege to get to know some of our residents who care tirelessly for loved ones in the most challenging circumstances . I pay tribute to carers in my constituency and specifically to Pat O’Connell , Jan Quan and everybody at the Parkinson ’s UK Weston - super - Mare branch for being so fearless in fighting for appropriate care services for their loved ones . I am in awe of their love , compassion and conviction to secure better care and respite services not just for themselves , but for everyone . It is a real tragedy that the care system was not able to provide them with suitable respite from the 24/7 care they provide . I continue to fight their corner and that of all carers across the constituency . Weston - super - Mare is an extraordinary place , full of a vibrant mix of people . Since my family moved to the village of Kewstoke in 2001 , Weston and the surrounding areas have become deeply intertwined with our lives . I may still have my Stokie accent and a love of pottery and Staffordshire oat cakes , but Weston is now where my heart is . It is a town where we find people with roots from across our nation and from across the world . My younger sisters Emily and Lauren have become expert code - switchers between Stokie and west country based on the situation , but my younger brother Scott has embraced the local lingo and I can almost hear him now saying , “ Alright , my lover ? ” Weston has provided us all with a friendly community , a beautiful coastline and the best British seaside experience in the country — that is a fact . It is hard not to feel immense pride being there , and even though I will not play favourites with our local chip shops and ice cream stops , I can assure hon . Members that there are many excellent choices in the town . This year we celebrate the 160th birthday of Birnbeck pier — Weston ’s oldest — which has been closed for nearly 30 years . Its restoration has been a labour of love for many people who have worked tirelessly to preserve this piece of our history , and I am overjoyed to be the MP who will hopefully see it brought back to life for our community and for commercial use . Weston is made up of diverse communities , from the town itself , which hosted its first mela this summer to celebrate our diversity , to areas such as Worle and villages such as Bleadon , Uphill and Hutton . Those neighbourhoods have grown significantly over the years , with post - war estates such as Bournville , Coronation , Potteries and Oldmixon fostering some of the most creative , friendly and resilient people and hosting events from community Pride to some of the most fantastic creative art events I have ever attended . I come from a community just like those . Under the last Labour Government , I was the first in my family to pursue A - levels and go to university . It is because of those life - changing opportunities that I am here today . A constituent said to me recently , “ Politics does n’t make any difference , ” but I could not disagree more . Yes , we have seen challenges , but for many of us , especially in my generation , the decisions of a Labour Government gave us the chance to succeed in ways we never thought possible . I am determined to build on that legacy and ensure we continue to empower future generations . Recently , Weston has evolved into a haven for food and beverage enterprise , offering everything from traditional British seaside fare to incredible vegan options thanks to local champions such as Anna Southwell , who have transformed perceptions of vegan cuisine — including my own — and shown how to build and sustain inclusive communities through food , drink and entertainment . Businesses such as Kinda Co. , known for its dairy - free cheese , have chosen Weston as their home , thriving there because of the opportunities we create for growth and sustainability , and while it is now just outside my constituency , the iconic Thatchers Cider will always be associated with our town . Even though our high street , like many across the country , has struggled over the years , traditional stores such as the phenomenal family - run Walker and Ling , opened in 1904 and trading in the same place since , have kept the faith and are part of the fabric of this great town . I sincerely hope it will be there for many more years to come as we work together to revitalise the high street . Weston is also home to some amazing tech start - ups , and as the world becomes more interconnected , with high - skill , high - wage jobs tied less to cities , places such as Weston are starting to see investment . More people have cottoned on to what a great place it is , and I can totally understand why . I thank my predecessor John Penrose for his service in this place over 19 years . I particularly pay tribute to him for his work on the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 and as the anti - corruption champion in the May and Johnson Ministries . Before him came the late Lord Cotter , who was a visionary for our town , advocating for digital transformation and regional economic development . He was also a patron of a homeless and rough sleeping charity in Weston , Somewhere to Go , which he cared for deeply . I am honoured to continue in his footsteps as a trustee . I look forward to playing an active role in the Government ’s ambitious plans to end homelessness , and to ensuring that technology is a force for good and that digital inclusion becomes a reality for all . Our youth and , indeed , all those seeking to learn and develop deserve the best opportunities . I am inspired constantly by the hope , resilience and community spirit of the children and young people I am fortunate enough to be surrounded by in Weston . I am committed to ensuring that Weston continues to be a place where everyone can thrive , and where community and innovation come together to build a brighter future for all . If the children and young people I see in my constituency week in , week out are anything to judge our future by , we are in excellent hands . Thank you , Weston - super - Mare , for being my home and for giving me the opportunity to serve you . I have spent most of my working life in the NHS , but speaking for the first time in the House , I must start with a confession : as some of the northerly Members will recognise from my voice , I was not born in the west country . It is now 35 years since I was posted to what was then RAF Chivenor on the beautiful north Devon coast , while serving in the Royal Air Force . At the time , my flight sergeant at RAF Laarbruch in Germany told me that going to north Devon would probably turn out to be an adventure . I confess to the House that I do not think this place is quite what he , or I , had in mind . First , I want to thank my family , friends , and all my supporters over the years — especially my two - year - old grandson Clayton , who probably won me one or two votes — as without them I would not be here . My constituency is fortunate to be famous for its stunning landscape and areas of outstanding natural beauty , with beaches , moors , farmland and forests that draw countless visitors every year . Farming and tourism sustain many of our rural communities , with historic market towns such as South Molton , set in rolling countryside , giving way to stunning seaside destinations such as Woolacombe , Instow and Braunton . Chivenor , where I was so lucky to be posted all those years ago , is now home to the Royal Marines Commando Logistic Regiment , and my area has a proud military history . Now - famous surfing beaches , such as Woolacombe and Saunton sands , were once used as training grounds to prepare allied forces for the Normandy landings . Behind the natural beauty , the challenges that my area faces are stark . Like many rural and coastal constituencies , it suffers from low wages , which are nearly £ 100 a week less than the national average , and an acute housing shortage that prices younger people out of our communities or prevents them from starting a family in North Devon , as I did . Even in the 2020s , parts of my constituency still face real deprivation . In some parts of Ilfracombe , for example , the proportion of young people attaining level 4 qualifications is barely above 25 % , while life expectancy is 10 years lower than other parts of Devon . Out of uniform , I joined the NHS , starting out as a mental health nurse at North Devon district hospital — the most remote acute hospital in mainland England — visiting patients across unique communities , such as Combe Martin and Lynton , and eventually leading the campaign to build a chemotherapy and day treatment unit . My area suffers from shortfalls in important medical services such as pharmacy , nursing and , in particular , dentistry . Our hospital now has intensive care units and operating theatres that are approaching 50 years old and are desperately in need of investment from the new hospital programme . However , I have been astonished by the possibilities on offer in my constituency . Numerous coastal seats across the south - west , mine included , stand to benefit massively from investment in floating offshore wind in the Celtic sea . Clean energy , an extended supply chain and high - paying jobs could be a shot in the arm for the economy of the great south - west . I pay tribute to my predecessor Selaine Saxby , who identified how that massive opportunity could , if done right , benefit the region for decades to come . North Devon district hospital will soon be home to a £ 1.4 million clinical research centre that will lead groundbreaking studies into heart conditions , joint problems and osteoarthritis . Few people know that Barnstaple , where I live , is also home to Accord Healthcare , a pharmaceutical group that manufactures a staggering 10 % of all the medication used in the NHS and is a vital part of this country ’s critical supply chain . It has just announced a new , groundbreaking , orally administered medication for prostate cancer . That is hot off the press this week and may benefit as many as 40,000 cancer sufferers , and it is among the first medications of its kind . Another remarkable firm , Systems Engineering and Assessment , or SEA , has just won a £ 135 million contract to supply cutting - edge defensive countermeasure systems to the Royal Navy . Thanks to its hard work and some innovative engineering on an industrial estate in my constituency , young people will be kept safe as they serve their country in uniform . My constituency is one of hidden opportunities around every corner . We must seize them . It is an immense privilege for me to be North Devon ’s voice in this place , and I intend to do it justice . I congratulate my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) on his maiden speech . I start by thanking my long - suffering family , especially my children Zoe , Sam and Emily , who have been truly supportive throughout everything to get me to this place . Let me express my thanks to the amazing team in the constituency who worked so hard to get me here as well . It is an honour to have been elected to represent my constituency of Newton Abbot , an area that I have called home for some 25 years . I tend to find that people in Westminster either ask , “ Where is Newton Abbot ? ” or they say that they know it well through personal experience . We are on the south coast of Devon between Exeter and Torbay , between the sea and the gateway to Dartmoor with the Rivers Teign and Exe . The constituency name reflects our largest market town , but it could add Dawlish , Teignmouth , Kingsteignton , let alone the many villages from Starcross , Kenton , Bishopsteignton , Abbotskerswell , Ogwell , Denbury , Ipplepen , Broadhempston and many more . I have been wondering what to tell hon . Members about my constituency . Perhaps the creative and innovative people , including Newton Abbot ’s own Ollie Watkins , the members of Muse , or Peter Cross , usually seen at England rugby fixtures with his resplendent cross of St George hat and coat . Or the history of Brunel ’s engineering of the coastal railway , today ’s mining of ball clay or , previously , the granite used to rebuild London bridge , the British Museum and others , quarried from Dartmoor and transported via the Templer Way — a tramway itself created from granite — all shipped via the port of Teignmouth . Or the story of Dawlish violets , Jane Austen ’s visits , Keats ’ poem or how Dawlish became the home of black swans . Perhaps the protected shores of the Exe estuary and Dawlish Warren , home to many thousands of wildfowl and wading birds each winter . Suffice it to say , the area is steeped in history , fame and natural beauty . Members will find much more than Devon cream teas and scones — with cream and jam the right way up , of course . Growing up in a Royal Navy family , we moved around an awful lot . Moving to Dawlish was a natural choice , but I suspect it was also my parent ’s influence that caused me to set my sights on this place . In the 1950s , they met in Downing Street when my mother worked in Churchill ’s office . My father told us stories of racing to the parking place outside No . 10 in his old MG . Speaking of previous politicians , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anne Marie Morris , and her dedication to the constituency . Her maiden speech told of the waves gently breaking over the trains on the Dawlish seawall . The 2014 storm , however , showed us that the force of the sea and the increased storms due to climate change were both serious and urgent . Since then , Network Rail has constructed a new seawall , rebuilt the station and more . However , it was the catastrophic cliff collapse near Teignmouth that caused the longest interruption of rail services , cutting London off from the south - west peninsular . We are still waiting for funds to be confirmed for that work . Climate change is a real and present threat to us on the coast , and we can not stop it with just flood defences and mitigations . We must do everything we can to reduce the use of fossil fuels and carbon dioxide emissions . Turning to healthcare , Devon has both an ageing population and fewer hospital beds per head of population than the national average . Local hospitals are falling into disrepair and are often overlooked in the model of care . It was during my first week in this place that I heard from the local NHS trust that it was cancelling the planned new Teignmouth health and wellbeing centre that would have replaced the crumbling hospital . Due to increased costs and a recent cap placed on its capital budget , bizarrely because of revenue overspend , the project was cancelled . The new centre was to have become the home to local GPs and local NHS services . I did write to my pen pal , the Secretary of State , but have yet to hear back . In the meantime , I am working with the GPs to help them secure a new home and avoid putting primary care for 18,000 patients in jeopardy . Teignmouth hospital is still under the threat of closure , despite housing many NHS and voluntary sector services . Meeting recently with Volunteering in Health at the hospital with my right hon . Friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , we saw how its model of wraparound care had been copied internationally and that Singapore was now rolling it out as global best practice . As an engineer and a Liberal , I know that we do not need to accept broken systems . We can fix them , and by empowering people we can build a brighter and better future . I will do everything I can in this place to fix systems and help my constituents , and help to protect the beautiful constituency , the environment and its biodiversity as long as I am here .