Let me first warmly congratulate my right hon . Friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on her success in the ballot , and on using that success for this purpose . I am delighted that she has chosen school attendance as the subject of her Bill . It is a subject that I know is close to her heart , and one that she has championed with aplomb and with impact . She said towards the end of her remarks that attendance is the key to a child ’s future , and I agree . We have often said that reading is the most fundamental thing in school , because if a child can not read properly , they can not access the curriculum and nothing else works , but attendance is even more important . Whatever our brilliant teachers are doing in schools , if the children are not there , they can not benefit . I thank my hon . Friends and the Opposition spokes - person , the hon . Member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , for their contributions . We all recognise the importance of regular attendance not only for children ’s attainment , but for their wellbeing and development . There is evidence that some attitudes to absence have changed since the pandemic , with a somewhat greater propensity among some families to keep a child with a minor illness , such as a cough or a cold , at home , whereas prior to the pandemic they would have gone to school . It is worth saying that , before covid , great progress had been made on attendance since 2010 , and we are committed to getting back to those levels . They will never be 100 % , for obvious reasons — every child will be off school ill at some point , and sadly some children will need to be off for extended periods — but we need to get back to that pre - pandemic level of 95 % or above . I am pleased to confirm that the Government fully support this Bill from my right hon . Friend the Member for Chelmsford . We are exploring all possible avenues to make our attendance guidance statutory , including the use of existing powers . That is important because we want every child to be able to achieve their potential , and attending school regularly is obviously crucial to that . As my right hon . Friend outlined , this Bill will improve the consistency of support available in all parts of England , first , by requiring schools of all types to have and to publicise a school attendance policy and , secondly , by introducing a new general duty on local authorities to seek to improve attendance and reduce absence in their areas . The Bill will require schools and local authorities to have regard to statutory guidance . In practice , that will see us revising and reissuing our “ Working together to improve school attendance ” guidance . It is widely supported by schools , trusts and local authorities , and both the Education Committee and the Children ’s Commissioner have already called for it to be made statutory . The guidance was introduced in September 2022 and has already started to make a difference . There were 380,000 fewer pupils persistently absent or not attending in 2022 - 23 than in 2021 - 22 . Overall absence for the autumn term just gone was 6.8 % , which is down from 7.5 % in autumn 2022 . To turn it the other way around , attendance in that term is up , year on year , from 92.5 % to 93.2 % . However , while we of course welcome that improvement , there is still further to go to get to those pre - pandemic levels and better , and there are still parts of the country where families do not have access to the right support , as my hon . Friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) rightly identified . It is important to legislate to end the postcode lottery so that any family can get the support they need , and doing so will give parents increased clarity and level up standards across schools and local authorities . That is also an important part of this Government ’s emphasis on a “ support first ” approach , meaning that schools and local authorities work together to break down the barriers that can stop a pupil attending . To support schools and local authorities in meeting those expectations , the Government already have a comprehensive attendance strategy , and this aspect of it is only one part of a much wider whole . We have deployed attendance advisers to support local authorities and a number of trusts . We have created a new data tool , with 88 % of state - funded schools signed up . At the system leadership level , we have convened the attendance action alliance to work across sectors to remove barriers to attendance and reduce absence . We have launched 32 attendance hubs , to reach more than 1 million pupils . And we have expanded our attendance mentor pilot , as my hon . Friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly mentioned , to reach 15 priority education investment areas . Of course , much wider work is in place as well . More children are now eligible for free school meals as a result of the protections put in place on universal credit transition ; £ 30 million has been spent on breakfast clubs and it is targeted at where it is most needed — where it can have the most effect . I say to the hon . Member for Newcastle upon Tyne North that that does include secondary schools as well as primary schools . We also have in place the holiday activities and food programme . We are increasing the pupil premium in 2024 - 25 to £ 2.9 billion . Of course attendance is one of the great factors and important drivers in narrowing the gap between better - off and more disadvantaged pupils . We are expanding the Supporting Families programme over this spending review period , and addressing attendance at school where there is a problem is a fundamental part of that programme . My right hon . Friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) mentioned the lasting effect , sadly , of the pandemic and the importance of socialisation , and he is absolutely right ; we often think of the early years and the effect on the youngest children , but this is actually true throughout a child ’s or young person ’s development . He particularly mentioned the year 6 to year 7 transition point , which we know is pivotal in so many ways , and a lot of schools are doing some very good work there . My right hon . Friend specifically asked about mental health and the possibility of an absence code . I understand his motivation and that of others in raising that point . Let me just say that a practicality question is involved . At the moment someone is taking the register , it is not always practical for them to be able to say that something is one particular type of health issue or another , and there is the risk that we would have inaccurate reporting and a misunderstanding of trends as a result . He also mentioned the wider work on mental health . He will know that we are putting forward a grant for every state school to be able to train a senior mental health lead . In addition , the really important wider work on mental health support teams , supporting clusters of schools , primary as well as secondary , continues to grow . My hon . Friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central mentioned not only the mentors programme , but the importance of extra - curricular activity and pastoral care . That is really important and we need always to be saying that this is about not only learning and attainment , but everything else that comes with school . Of course , I join my hon . Friend the Member for Aylesbury in congratulating Aylesbury High School . He was right also to ask about costs for local authorities and for us not to overburden schools . In advance of issuing our existing guidance on attendance , we carried out the comprehensive new burdens assessment , which found that the expectations could be implemented by local authorities without additional funding if they had the average number of staff working on attendance . We are confident that that assessment remains accurate , based on a growing body of evidence since that assessment was published . The evidence shows that where local authorities are delivering the guidance , staffing levels have remained within those predicted levels . But my hon . Friend the Member for Aylesbury was also right to talk about ensuring that we do not overburden schools themselves . I join him in paying tribute to school leaders , schoolteachers and wider staff for the extraordinary work that we have heard is going on and what they are doing to get children into school . I absolutely agree with him that we need to ensure that we have a proportionate approach that supports the whole system — the schools , local authorities and so on — and works with people in our common endeavour to maximise the benefit that children get from their education . This Bill , if passed , will also update our existing guidance in advance of the new school year to reflect the latest best practice and feedback that we have gathered from the sector , and to make it as easy as possible for schools and local authorities to understand the actions they need to take . In closing , I reiterate my thanks and appreciation to my right hon . Friend the Member for Chelmsford for bringing this important Bill before the House today . Being in school has never been more valuable , with standards continuing to rise , and this Bill will help to ensure that every young person and their family , whatever their background and wherever they are in the country , can receive the support they need to do just that . I am sure we will hear more from her — and I look forward to that — as the Bill progresses through the House . I thank her again , and I urge hon . Members across the House to support the Bill . Motion made , That the Bill be now read a Second time . Hon . Members : Object . Bill to be read a Second time on Friday 1 March .