It is a pleasure to take part in this Easter Adjournment debate . I always find that these end - of - term debates really enlighten me about fellow Members of the House , their constituencies and the issues that are important to their constituents . Before I talk about something close to my own constituency and heart , I associate myself with the contribution of the hon . Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and the thanks that she gave to Surrey police . My own borough team in Guildford has been fantastic , just as hers has been , in supporting our town centre by dealing with antisocial behaviour . I note the absolutely cracking contribution and egg - cellent Easter puns from the hon . Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) . I will stop there with the Easter puns and move on to my constituency . I will use my time to highlight an issue in my constituency that has both national and local significance . I hope that action on the issue will not just resolve it in Guildford , but help to drive long - term change in the way we support charities and businesses during multi - year infrastructure projects . Many Members will be aware of the extensive redevelopment works taking place at junction 10 of the M25 , near the Royal Horticultural Society garden at Wisley . The redevelopment works started in November 2022 and were due to finish in summer 2025 , but sadly it has been confirmed recently that that will not be the case ; they will finish in approximately spring 2026 . That is four years of disruption for local residents and businesses . Ultimately , the project should improve the junction , but — it is a very big “ but”—there have been serious consequences for RHS Wisley and our much - loved local café , Ockham Bites , alongside frustration and disruption for local residents in villages around the junction and everyone who has had to travel through it . While the two places are very different in scale , both have seen a significant loss . Ockham Bites is losing £ 600 a day , and RHS Wisley predicts that by the end of the project it will have lost £ 11 million . These financial losses were highlighted in the early days of the project but dismissed on the basis that current legislation compensates only on the value of property , not for loss of business . For RHS Wisley , the loss has had far - reaching consequences . Plans for new arboretums have been delayed , funding for scientific research has been reduced and community outreach programmes have been scaled back . The impact goes beyond my constituency and the garden itself through to the communities around Guildford and other RHS sites across the country . They are being forced to consider cuts to training opportunities , with a projected 10 % reduction in workplace student horticulturalist positions over the next two years . I am sure that Members of the House will be very sad to hear all those things about RHS Wisley . I know that residents in my constituency , as well as people across the country , feel strongly about this issue . A petition that is currently live has 92,000 signatures , and that number keeps increasing . I pause to thank my colleague Baroness Benjamin , who has been highlighting this matter in the other place , for the answers she has gained from Members of the House of Lords on the issues surrounding the problem at RHS Wisley . Will the hon . Member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) encourage the Transport Secretary to respond to my request to meet me and representatives of RHS Wisley ? Returning to Ockham Bites and its fantastic cakes and tea , it has suffered big financial losses for a small business . There have also been problems with water , and all those things combined have forced the owner to make serious personal and professional adjustments , including relocating their home and dealing with heightened stress levels . These two businesses ’ stories are of very different scales , but they highlight a serious flaw in current legislation . We should not be leaving small businesses , charities and other organisations struggling financially and potentially failing due to multi - year infrastructure projects . Not only are those organisations the lifeblood of our communities ; they are fundamental to our economic success . I hope that Ministers will agree to meet me and work to find a way to support those businesses , and commit to reviewing the legislation to ensure that their stories are not repeated and that future multi - year infrastructure projects are delivered without leaving key parts of our local economy and community behind . I want to close on a positive note in this afternoon ’s fantastic debate by giving a cheeky little encouragement to everyone in the Chamber , if they have not yet experienced RHS Wisley or their local RHS garden , to please go and enjoy them during the Easter recess . I also echo my hon . Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) in encouraging Members and the public , when enjoying the great outdoors , to be fire safe . Finally , I hope that all Members of this House and all the staff , security and police have a restorative Easter , and I thank the hon . Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for leading the debate .