Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during a debate that is so relevant to my own wonderful constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , in the heart of Cornwall . I come to this place — and I am disappointed that the hon . Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) is not present to hear me say this — with 30 years of business experience in the automotive sector and , latterly , in the renewable electricity sector . I thank all those who have given their maiden speeches today ; they were all truly heartfelt , wonderful speeches . My own inspiration for being here comes from my three children , my daughter and my two sons , who join us in the Public Gallery today . I want first to pay tribute to my predecessor , George Eustice , for his work on animal welfare as Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as his support for local projects in Cornwall such as Kresen Kernow , the Cornish archive , and — despite our profound differences on our relationship with the EU — the honourable way in which he was prepared to criticise trade arrangements made by the Conservative party . It is an unparalleled privilege to represent one ’s home constituency , and the ties that bind Cornish men and women to our homeland are woven into every sinew of our being . The constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle is a truly remarkable place : the place where I was born and grew up and where I live . To understand Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , I respectfully ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to transport yourself in your mind to the summit of a single rocky hill , smack bang in the middle of the constituency . This rocky hill is called Carn Brea , which is , in fact , Cornish for “ rocky hill ” . At the summit of Carn Brea sits the Basset monument , looking down from 750 feet across the constituency . The monument was funded by public subscription in 1836 after Basset himself petitioned the other place against slavery in 1828 . To the north of Carn Brea , just 4 miles away , the Celtic sea sparkles in the sunlight and laps the beautiful beaches of Gwithian , Portreath , Porthtowan , St Agnes and Perranporth — the Celtic sea , which offers the prospect of vast quantities of electricity generated from offshore wind , an opportunity that I dearly hope this Government will grasp . Looking to the west from Carn Brea we see the town of Camborne , pronounced “ Kammbronn ” in Cornish , meaning “ crooked hill ” . It is a town that , along with its near neighbour Redruth , is synonymous with our tin mining heritage . The two towns were once among the wealthiest in Britain , helping to drive the economy for more than four centuries . Nestled in front of Camborne , a large flag of St Piran flutters in the breeze . This flag sits at the top of the South Crofty tin mine . There can be no finer physical symbol of the potential for the return of the Cornish economic powerhouse than South Crofty — the last tin mine to close , in 1998 . The economic winds have dramatically changed since then , and tin , which is used in the production of virtually every electrical device , is now also being used in the production of solar panels and , along with lithium , forms the cornerstone of our critical mineral industry . We import tin from as far afield as China and Australia , with all the damaging environmental impacts that come with such imports , yet in Camborne and Redruth we sit on the third highest - grade tin deposits in the world , and there is plenty of it . Our sense of pride in our mining heritage , which was mentioned by my hon . Friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , and the possibility of our tin mining renaissance are a constant source of hope and optimism for an area that has been damned by industrial decline for decades . But back to the summit of Carn Brea and Basset ’s monument . Further over to the west , on the horizon behind Camborne , is Hayle , the third largest town in the constituency . Although the official title of my constituency is Camborne and Redruth , woe betide me if I do not mention Hayle in the same breath . Hayle is a vital natural seaport , ready to serve the new opportunities in the Celtic sea , and it includes a very large estuary . Indeed , the Cornish word for estuary is hayl . I have strong familial ties with the town , where my great - uncles , the Slade family , once ran a steel engineering business on South Quay . Let us look directly south from Carn Brea now , to the gentle rolling hills leading down through the beautiful Cornish granite villages of Stithians , Mawnan Smith and Constantine , and then on to the two stunning subtropical gardens of Glendurgan and Trebah , which , in turn , lead down to the Helford river , from where thousands of American troops set off on D - day to free Europe from fascism . To the east of Carn Brea lies Redruth , the Cornish meaning of which is “ red ford ” , the Cornish word for “ red ” being “ ruth ” and the word for “ ford ” being “ red”—obviously ! Redruth is rapidly becoming a cultural hub , and I strongly recommend visits to Krowji creative hub , Kresen Kernow — the aforementioned archive centre — the Buttermarket , and the Ladder arts and culture hub . Our former prosperity is evident throughout the centre of Redruth , with imposing granite buildings that are awakening with new life after a deep slumber . Further to the east , beyond Redruth , can be found the villages of Carharrack and St Day , which served as a hub for one of the world ’s wealthiest copper mining districts from the 16th century to the 1830s . Just beyond them is United Downs , where Cornish Lithium , Geothermal Engineering and ground source heat pump companies are based . These businesses have the potential to play key roles in Britain ’s economic transformation . We have tin , lithium , geothermal and ground source heat , but we are also blessed with the opportunities of offshore wind in the Celtic sea , onshore wind , solar and tidal . There are very few places in the UK in which renewable energy and critical mineral opportunities are so abundant . The renewable energy opportunities are not the only factors that make this land so distinct . Let me quickly give three other examples . First , 10 years ago Cornwall was granted national minority status under the European framework convention for the protection of national minorities . Our language , our culture and our heritage , as well as our economic potential , mark us out on this island . Secondly , the positive reaction received by all six Cornish MPs on both sides of the House for taking our oaths in Cornish is telling . Almost half our children and young people consider themselves first and foremost Cornish . Finally , on Saturday my brother Dickon will be made a bard of the Gorsedh , the highest honour that can be bestowed on a Cornish man or woman . This is an honour awarded to people who have given exceptional service to Cornwall by a manifestation of the Celtic spirit or by service to Cornwall . It is these cultural differences that mark us out . It has been clear on the doorstep over the past two years that there is a strong desire for a non - mayoral model of governance arrangement with Westminster . My hope and my focus in coming weeks and months will be to persuade the Government that the most appropriate devolution arrangement for Cornwall is an Assembly similar to that of our Celtic cousins in Wales . In terms of economic development , culture and governance , the time has come to throw open the cage door and unleash the Cornish Celtic tiger . For my part , I will put all my energies into representing the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle to the best of my abilities . To do so will be the honour of my life . Meur ras — thank you .