Apologies , but I feel that I should keep going . Means - tested benefits can help where appropriate . Universal credit , for example , pays an extra £ 2,400 a year to unpaid family carers . I do not underestimate the challenges within the universal credit system , and we want to ensure that carers who need it get that support . As I was saying to the right hon . Member for Kingston and Surbiton a moment ago , we are looking at different aspects of the system , including by reviewing universal credit to ensure that it does the job we all want it to do . We will set out the details in due course . Pension credit can also be paid to carers at a higher rate than what those without caring responsibilities receive , and over 100,000 carers receive an extra amount of pension credit because of their entitlement to carer ’s allowance . However , we think that as many as 760,000 pensioners who are eligible for pension credit are not receiving it , which is why the Government have already taken action to drive up pension credit take - up . Last month , we started a national campaign to encourage eligible pensioners to check their eligibility and apply . We are asking local authorities to support that and , as the House will know , the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister wrote to them in August . Following that , we have seen a 152 % increase in applications for pension credit since 29 July , with almost 75,000 applications in just eight weeks . In November we will write to around 120,000 pensioners in receipt of housing benefit who may be eligible but are not currently claiming pension credit , and I encourage all family carers to check that they are receiving all the support to which they are entitled . The gov.uk website has lots of information on carer ’s allowance , and 90 % of people claim online , although traditional paper forms are available for those who want to claim it that way . I know that organisations such as Carers UK and Citizens Advice are also on hand and do a fantastic job of giving advice . Financial help for carers is really important , but it is only one pillar of a proper support system . All of us need a balance in life , and that is important for carers too . Most carers of working age want to consider working in some form , and not just for financial wellbeing but to enhance their life and the life of the person for whom they care . We want to help family carers combine their caring responsibilities with paid work where they can . We will review the implementation of the Carer ’s Leave Act 2023 , which gave unemployed carers a right to time off work for the first time , and we will explore the benefits of paid leave while being mindful of the impact of any changes on small employers . Through the Employment Rights Bill , we will ensure that flexible working , which can play such an important role in helping carers to balance their work and caring responsibilities , is available to all workers , except where it is genuinely not feasible . The Government will carefully consider the findings of Lord Darzi ’s independent review of the NHS , which is very clear about the need for a fresh approach to supporting family carers . Caring is a demanding role in which no one can function at their best without ever having a break , and the better care fund includes money that can be used for unpaid carer support , including short breaks and respite services for carers . As I mentioned at the beginning of my contribution , we will ensure that family carers ’ voices are heard as we develop plans to create a national care service as part of our reforms to adult social care . Every day , unpaid family carers step up when loved ones need their support . Without the contribution of family carers , our country would not function . The pressure on social care in this country is already unbearable ; without unpaid family carers , it would become completely untenable .