My hon . Friend is pushing against an open door . He may be aware that in 2023 we made some legislative changes to give the General Dental Council more flexibility to expand the registration options open to international dentists , tripling the capacity of three sittings of the overseas registration exam from August 2023 and increasing the number of sittings for the part 2 exam in 2024 from three to four . That will create an additional 1,300 places overall for overseas dentists aiming to work in the UK . We will also be bringing forward measures to enable dental therapists to work at the top of their training , which will expand the capacity . He is right that reform of the UDA is also required and we will be bringing forward our plans shortly . I understand the hon . Gentleman ’s position and he is right to stand up for his workers . This is the reality of the situation : that plan has not persuaded Tata . Tata has not said that it is credible . Tata has said to me that it could not go along with that plan , because although one of the blast furnaces — blast furnace No . 4 — has a number of years to run , it would still come to the end of the life of the coke plant and the sintering plant , so if Tata went ahead with that proposal , it would keep open one blast furnace , which is still losing a lot of money , and then have to start importing all the coke and all the sinter that it would need for it . There is then the technical problem in that Tata says it would be very difficult indeed to build an arc furnace next to a working blast furnace containing molten steel . [ Interruption . ] The hon . Gentleman can shake his head , but that is what it is saying to us . That is what it has said to us as a Government and that is why we find ourselves in the difficult , unpleasant and awful situation of having to choose between 3,000 people losing their jobs and 17,500 people losing their jobs . [ Official Report , Correction , 1 February 2024 , Vol . 744 , c. 14MC . ] That is why we came to the decision we did .