The current law prohibits the sale of vapes to under-18 - year - olds . We are not proposing a change in the law on the prohibition of sale . I was simply highlighting that young people grow , and those who become addicted to vaping under the age of 18 are much more likely to carry that addiction into young adulthood . That was the point that I was seeking to make . We can expect a pipeline of young people becoming addicted to vaping , which may stay with some of them for the rest of their lives . This Government have been asleep at the wheel on children and vaping . They had the opportunity to vote for measures to protect children from vaping last year but failed to do so . The measures that the Minister has announced most recently are better late than never , but are simply inadequate to the task . ASH is clear that while educating young people on the risks of vaping through a new resource pack for schools is welcome , the evidence suggests that education alone will not stop children from vaping . There is substantial evidence on what worked in reducing smoking rates among children . In 1982 , when England first started monitoring smoking rates among children , just one in five children was a current smoker . Eighteen years later in 2000 , the proportion was exactly the same — not because children were not educated about the dangers , but because adolescents are risk takers . Between 2000 and 2021 , smoking rates among children fell from 19 % to just 3%—not because of better education or enforcement but because the regulatory framework during that time ratcheted up year by year . Under the last Labour Government , all point of sale advertising and display of tobacco was prohibited . A comprehensive anti - smuggling strategy was implemented by HMRC and the UK Border Force , which dramatically reduced sales of illicit tobacco , and cigarettes were put in standardised packaging , with all the brightly coloured glamourised packaging removed . What is true for the strategy to tackle smoking is true for the challenge of vaping . Without much tougher regulation , we will not succeed in driving down vaping among children and young people . Regulations on packaging , advertising and labelling are essential . Labour is calling on the Government to ban vapes from being branded and advertised to appeal to children , and to work with local councils —