With permission , I will now make a statement to update the House on the Supreme Court judgment in the case of For Women Scotland Ltd v. The Scottish Ministers . This ruling brings welcome clarity and confidence for women and service providers . Single - sex spaces must be protected , and this is personal to me ; before I was elected to this place , I ran a women ’s refuge in the north - east for women and children fleeing domestic violence . I know how important to survivors it is , and always was , to have single - sex spaces based on biology — places of safety after trauma , time in a sanctuary that allowed them therapeutic support , healing from unimaginable male violence and fear . I remember how hard countless campaigners had to fight over many decades to get any single - sex provision at all , in order to create women ’s refuges and rape crisis centres . Later , I remember how hard it was to convince commissioners that young homeless women trying to heal from terrifying acts of cruelty should not be left in mixed - sex accommodation . I will continue to fight for that provision to ensure that women ’s safety , women ’s privacy and women ’s dignity are always protected . This Government will continue as before , working to protect single - sex spaces based on biological sex — now with the added clarity of this ruling — and we will continue our wider work with commitment and compassion to protect all those who need it , right across society . This is a Government who will support the rights of women and trans people , now and always . This is a Government who will support the rights of all people with protected characteristics , now and always . This is a Government who will support the rights of our most vulnerable , now and always . On that , there is no change to announce : dignity and respect for all , now and always . But this is a judgment long in the making . It began in 2018 when Scottish Ministers issued guidance on the definition of a woman in the eyes of the Gender Representation on Public Boards ( Scotland ) Act 2018 . That guidance stated that a woman in that Act bears the same meaning as a woman in the Equality Act 2010 , and included trans women with a gender recognition certificate . For Women Scotland challenged that guidance , saying that sex in the Equality Act means biological sex , so that a trans woman with a gender recognition certificate is a man for the purposes of the Act . The case was appealed to the Supreme Court , and last week , the court ruled that sex in the Equality Act means biological sex . This means that a person will be considered as their biological sex for the purposes of the Equality Act , regardless of whether or not they have a gender recognition certificate . I know that the women who brought this challenge have not always been treated with the respect they deserve . This Government believe in freedom of speech and in the fundamental right to protest , but in no way does that extend to criminal damage . There can be no excuse for defaced statues of feminist icons , no excuse for threats , and no excuse for harassment . Such acts seek to drag down the debate , away from common sense and the sensible view — held by the majority of the British public — that women need single - sex spaces , that those spaces should be protected , and that we can protect those spaces while treating trans people with respect as well . As such , the certainty that this judgment brings is welcome . Now , it is time to move forward . There is now a need to ensure that this ruling is clear across a range of settings , from healthcare and prisons to sport and single - sex support groups . The Equality and Human Rights Commission , as Britain ’s equality regulator , is working quickly to issue an updated statutory code of practice to reflect this judgment , and I look forward to reviewing that code of practice in due course . Alongside these updates , our work to protect single - sex spaces across society continues in earnest , because for far too long , under the Conservative Government , single - sex spaces were anything but — and nowhere is that clearer than in our hospitals . Year after year , the Conservatives pledged to close mixed - sex wards ; and yet year after year , their use not only persisted but grew massively . Year after year , often in their most vulnerable moments , women were denied the privacy and dignity they deserved . Time after time , Conservative Ministers , including the now Leader of the Opposition , came to this House and toured television studios telling the public that they were protecting single - sex spaces in our hospitals . The truth was very different , because as last year ’s data tells us , the use of mixed - sex wards rose by more than 2,200 % in 10 years under the last Tory Government . There is no better example of rhetoric divorced from reality and of a party playing politics with the safety of women , and we will never let them forget it . By contrast , this Government will protect women ’s wards and NHS England will soon publish guidance on how trans patients should be accommodated in clinical settings . We will end the practice of mixed - sex wards once and for all . It is not just in our NHS that we will act on behalf of women . In prisons , we will continue to protect women ’s safety with single - sex accommodation . In women ’s sport , I have always backed integrity and fairness . Biology matters for competitive sport , and sporting bodies have issued rules to reflect that . In our prisons , in our hospitals , in sport and in a whole host of other spaces , what was true before the ruling remains true after the ruling . This Government protect safe spaces for women under the Equality Act 2010 . For too many years , we have seen the heat dialled up in this debate by the Conservatives . There was no real action to protect women ’s spaces , while under their watch the use of mixed - sex wards increased , an epidemic of violence against women and girls spread across the country and women ’s health was neglected . This Labour Government will deliver for women through our plan for change , driving down waiting lists month after month , tackling misogyny throughout society , and once and for all delivering justice for survivors of violence against women and girls . I know that many trans people will be worried in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling , so I want to provide reassurance here and now that trans people will continue to be protected . We will deliver a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practices . We will work to equalise all existing strands of hate crime , and we will review adult gender identity services , so that all trans people get the high - quality care they deserve . The laws to protect trans people from discrimination and harassment will remain in place , and trans people will still be protected on the basis of gender reassignment — a protected characteristic written into Labour ’s Equality Act . This Government will offer trans people the dignity that too often they were denied by the Conservatives . Too often , trans people were a convenient punchbag and the butt of jokes made in this place by the Conservatives , culminating rather shamefully in the previous Prime Minister standing at this Dispatch Box trying to score cheap laughs from his Back Benchers at the expense of vulnerable people . By contrast , this Government are clear that trans people deserve safety , opportunity and respect . This verdict is about clarity and coherence in the eyes of the law , but the Supreme Court judges delivered along with that verdict a vital reminder : this is not about the triumph of one group at the expense of another . It is not about winners or losers , and it is not about us or them . That is the message I want to reinforce today in this House . Everyone in our society deserves dignity and respect . Those values are not and never will be a zero - sum battle . Dignity and respect for all — those are the values that lift us up and set us free . Those are the values that define and distinguish any modern and compassionate society . Those are the values that this Government will do everything to promote and protect , now and always . I commend this statement to the House .