Meur ras — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . May I begin by wishing His Majesty the King a very happy birthday — a sentiment that I am sure is shared on both sides of the House ? Standing here in this House , I am more aware than ever of the incredible privilege that it is to be here on behalf of South East Cornwall , a place that I love and am proud to call my home . I do not stand here alone ; rather , I stand with those who came before me , inspired me or supported me . I am especially proud to be the first Labour MP to represent the area , a wonderful community filled with history , resilience and a deep local pride . It is a love for the area and a steely determination to fight for its best interests that unites my predecessors and me . I pay tribute to Sheryll Murray for her work to champion public and rescue services and the local fishing industry , and to Colin Breed , who served before her . I intend to represent our community by extending a hand to bridge political divides , and by serving with the determination and humility that I have seen illuminating the paths of all those I most admire in public service . Today ’s debate offers me the opportunity to mention in particular some of those women who taught me that I , too , could stand , including our late friend Jo Cox , and the formidable Harriet Harman , both of whom I have had the honour of working with . South East Cornwall is a stunningly beautiful rural constituency , defined by the natural boundaries of the River Fowey in the west and the River Tamar in the East , ancient moorland to the north , and beautiful Cornish coastlines to the south , including the unique Rame peninsula , perfect for sea swimming , surfing and sailing . It is a place alive with history , from Restormel castle in Lostwithiel , to the historic harbour at Polperro , whose winding lanes whisper of a history of pirates and smugglers . Our economy is a story of resilience , woven from the threads of small businesses , including in the market gardens of the Tamar valley , tourism , farming and an inshore fishing fleet that deserves more recognition and support . The market town of Liskeard , at the geographical heart of the area , provides important places for people to meet and form new enterprises , such as Wildanet . Most importantly , it is the perfect place to find a Barnecutts pasty — and , unlike other Members of this House , I do know how to eat a pasty properly . We look both to the west across Cornwall , and to the east beyond the Tamar , for many crucial jobs . The dockyard in Devonport is particularly important to the towns of Saltash and Torpoint , where many local residents are employed . Torpoint is also home to HMS Raleigh , which provides exceptional naval training and serves as a deep source of local pride . South East Cornwall has a proud cultural heritage , celebrated in long - standing community traditions such as the Gorsedh — held in Callington for the first time in 40 years — the Black Prince parade and the Saltash May fair . That heritage is expressed through the arts at Sterts theatre and arts centre , Calstock Arts , and Maker Heights . Communities there are tight - knit , but they are often kept apart geographically by both distance and the lack of transport connections . But do n’t get me started on transport problems in Cornwall , Madam Deputy Speaker — you can expect to hear from me again on that topic . There are incredible people across the constituency who go the extra mile , with a community spirit found at Saltash Pride , in those working at food banks or in care homes , and at the Core , where I held my first surgery . It is a place rich in so many ways , but there are real challenges : above average rates of child poverty , fragile seasonal employment and house prices that are out of reach for many . In my previous work , I have seen some of the big problems we face at home and abroad : the trap of extreme poverty that is so difficult to escape , the threat of instability and conflict , and the challenges posed by climate change . I have also seen the resolve and determination of people to overcome those same challenges , and I have been struck by how the hardest of situations sometimes bring out the very best of us . That spirit can be found in organisations such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which I was so proud to work for , or at local events such as Liskeard Unlocked , which celebrated the town ’s shared values of freedom , safety and solidarity with its twinned Ukrainian town of Kopychyntsi . I know that caring for my mother throughout her prolonged and painful death from cancer — something that too many families face — has led me to this place . Without that experience , I would simply not be here . She told me to find solace in purpose , and I have . [ Hon . Members : “ Hear , hear . ” ] My family gave me a bedrock of certainty that anyone , anywhere , can make a positive difference . My grandad , injured in an industrial accident , would have me sit next to him on his green leather sofa after school to watch Prime Minister ’s questions . I have no doubt that he would be shocked but proud that I stand now by these green leather Benches , which felt so very far away from our lives and experiences . Clearly , children ’s earliest experiences are so formative , and early education is so pivotal — just look at the trouble that early experience has got me into now . I do not want where you are born to limit where you are going , or what you can do to be determined by who you know . Breaking down the barriers to opportunity is not a campaign slogan for me ; it is a guiding principle , and what I intend to deliver for my community . The beauty of our landscapes in our special corner of Cornwall is not just a backdrop to our lives ; it is the backbone of our economy and integral to our identity and wellbeing . I am committed to supporting our farmers and our fishing industry — the lifeblood of our community . They provide our food security , and they have a critically important relationship with the landscape . I am committed to improving our transport links , which currently hamper growth and divide communities , and to securing better access to healthcare services and provision for special educational needs and disabilities in the constituency . I am also committed to preserving the rugged , distinct natural environment that so defines our region and brings huge economic value to our vital tourist industry . Cornwall helped to power Britain ’s first industrial revolution , and it now stands ready to lead the new green industrial revolution , harnessing new technologies and the aspirations of our young people to create a sustainable future . South East Cornwall is both a gateway to Cornwall and a bridge to the rest of the UK , as embodied by the Tamar bridge . I intend also to be a bridge for our community , and to work tirelessly to connect Cornwall with the resources , opportunities and support that it deserves , so I stand here , ultimately , with gratitude for the incredible people of South East Cornwall . I see generosity and determination that inspire me daily . That is why I am here , and it is why I am honoured to be working to connect our past and our present , and to help build our future together .