I thank my hon . Friend and Berkshire colleague for that intervention , and he is so right in what he says . We must remember them . As we mark this solemn anniversary , we must shine a light on those whose sacrifices have too often been overlooked . Their names may not appear in our history books , but their courage shaped the world we live in . At the time of my VE Day contributions to the House in May , it was my understanding that only two British - based veterans who served in the pre - partition Indian Army were still with us . It is with deep regret that I inform the House today that both veterans have , sadly , since passed away . I would like to pay tribute to Havildar Major Rajinder Singh Dhatt MBE and Daffadar Muhammad Hussain , who was a local Slough resident . These two formidable Commonwealth ex - servicemen , whom I had the honour and privilege of meeting on several occasions , served with distinction and dedicated their lives to preserving the legacy of those who served . I am sure the House will join me in sending condolences to their family and friends . Their stories are a powerful reminder of the global nature of this conflict and the enduring bonds of service . As a proud Sikh , I carry this legacy personally . My great - grandfather lost a leg fighting in the first world war and my grandmother ’s brother and other family members served in the second world war . As I discussed with my staff members Isabella Elie and Lewis Rantell , their stories are echoed in families across Britain and the Commonwealth . One such story is that of Patrick McAnulty , one of the thousands of British and allied prisoners of war who endured unimaginable suffering in captivity . Subjected to forced labour , starvation and brutal treatment , many POWs did not survive . Those who did carried the physical and emotional scars for the rest of their lives . Their resilience in the face of such cruelty is testament to the human spirit , and their sacrifice must never be forgotten . As we reflect on the past , we must also celebrate how far we have come . The United Kingdom and Japan , once wartime enemies , are now very close allies . Today , we stand together in defence of peace and democracy . As the Defence Committee noted in its report on the global combat air programme , that partnership is a cutting - edge collaboration between the UK , Japan and Italy to develop the next generation of fighter jets . It is a powerful symbol of reconciliation and shared purpose . As veterans share their stories during this 80th anniversary , we are reminded that remembrance must be more than ceremonial : it must inspire action . The lessons of history are clear , yet conflict persists from Ukraine to Gaza , Sudan , the Congo and more . These are not distant tragedies ; they are urgent reminders of the fragility of peace . In my role as Chair of the Defence Committee , I am regularly reminded of the vital role that our current brave servicemen and women play in keeping our country safe , and I would like to recognise their contributions , too . However , recognition must be more than symbolic ; it must be matched by action and support . So , in conclusion , let us remember , let us reflect , but above all , let us ensure that the sacrifices of the past are never in vain and that the peace they secured is never taken for granted .