I want to thank those who elected me as the first MP for the new Ely and East Cambridgeshire constituency , although I follow in the Liberal footsteps of Clement Freud and others before him . I congratulate the hon . Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) on making her first speech to this House ; her constituency sounds almost , but not quite , as beautiful as mine . I also congratulate the hon . Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) on his first speech . My mum is a member of “ the turnover club ” and I became an honorary member when I came to this House because I felt I needed to check the saucers so that I could report back to her ; so I understand where the hon . Gentleman is coming from . Ely and East Cambridgeshire contains part of the old North East Cambridgeshire constituency and most of South East Cambridgeshire . I thank the right hon . Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) for being so helpful in passing over casework from constituents and I thank Lucy Frazer KC for representing South East Cambridgeshire and in particular for supporting the much - needed upgrade to Ely rail junction . I was disappointed to hear nothing about funding for that in the Budget . We all want economic growth for this country and the Government need to help us fix Ely junction if we are to get freight to and from the ports and allow us to have that growth . I am a chartered accountant so I know that the business case is unanswerable and I urge the Chancellor to put the funding for the Ely junction upgrade in the spring spending review . My constituents have a range of occupations : we have farmers , we have people in horseracing , and we have cutting - edge technology . Going back to the comments of the hon . Member for Stoke - on - Trent North , I was amazed to be invited to accompany Almath Crucibles to receive the King ’s award for innovation — people have been making crucibles for 8,000 years , yet it has come up with an innovation , which , as an archaeologist , I found utterly amazing . I was also amazed to look at how they make those crucibles in my constituency ; they make them with fantastic materials , but they do so in a way that our parents would recognise from the pottery industry . It is stunning . We are also a beautiful constituency , with an amazing natural environment . We have chalk grasslands , wetland peat and the River Great Ouse running through it all . Over the centuries , people have added things : have ditches , dykes and lodes that help control the water in the fens ; and the Devil ’s dyke , which runs from my home village of Reach through to Woodditton , a beautiful , probably late Saxon earthwork and a chalk grassland . Watching over all that , we have the “ ship of the fens ” , which many say is one of the best cathedrals in Europe . Personally , I think it is the best but I would not claim to be an expert in cathedrals . The National Trust is doing a lot of work near me with Wicken fen , as it has a vision to enlarge the wetland peat area to protect the biodiversity that depends on it and , as we heard in an earlier debate , capture the carbon that is within . I was lucky enough to visit recently , and was promised that we might see a kingfisher . We did indeed see that beautiful kingfisher going back and forth across the river . It was fantastic . However , there are some downsides to my constituency . It is very expensive to buy or rent a home , which is pricing out young people and families . The median price of a house in my constituency is 11 times the average salary , and the rental market follows on from that , basically . It is unaffordable for many people . On top of that , a lot of our affordable housing is badly insulated , and people rely on oil for their heating . Across my constituency , there are families who can not afford to heat their homes . As the Government are rebuilding Britain , which I hope that we can do , they should ensure that homes are built that are affordable for people to live in — not just homes that have an affordable price or rent but that are energy - efficient so that they are cheap to run . We must also ensure that we have the infrastructure and support around those homes , whether that is doctors , dentists , schools , green space or water . We need to have all those things . On the subject of dentists , Ely and East Cambridgeshire is a dental desert . I am horrified to say that people can not get on an NHS dental list in my constituency . That has to change . I have met people who have spent their life savings on dental treatment or people who , for heaven ’s sake , have done it themselves . It is horrendous and we have to address it . My great - grandfather grew up in the workhouse around Stoke - on - Trent . My parents were the first people in their families to go to university , and they always brought me up to believe that I could do anything I wanted as long as I worked hard on it . I first stood for Parliament in 1987 , and mum and dad helped me with that campaign . Sadly , my dad died a few years ago , but my mum supported my election campaign this year , and I know that dad would have been really pleased to see me elected to this House , just as mum was . I now have to correct an error I made on election night . I did not expect to win , so I had not written a victory speech . I remembered most of the people I had to thank but , as my husband and my children have repeatedly reminded me since , I forgot to thank them , so I am delighted to put on record , and in Hansard no less , my thanks to my husband , Jon , and my children , David and Kathryn , for their unswerving support and encouragement . This might sound a bit odd , but I also need to thank Fosters mill , which is a 19th - century windmill in Swaffham Prior that is still going strong . Its Prior ’s oats fuelled my campaign and now give me a breakfast boost each morning to get me through the day . I have to thank my agent Lorna Dupré for running a wonderful campaign and all my campaign team for delivering leaflets and doing all the canvassing . Most of all , I want to thank the people of Ely and East Cambridgeshire for engaging in the conversations and putting their trust in me to be their MP . I will do my utmost to make sure that their voices are heard in this House . I will also try to be the very best local MP possible .