Thank you , Madam Chair , for allowing me to give my maiden speech in this House . Like every Member across this House , it is the greatest honour , privilege and responsibility of my life to represent my community of Loughborough , Shepshed and the villages . I rise at the most difficult moment for our communities and our country since the second world war , when many feel despondency , despair and anger . I know that every Member across this House wants our communities to succeed and to contribute to our national success . That is what my community has done before and will do again , with hope and determination . My story does not begin in Loughborough . I was not born there — unlike my neighbours , who are now my friends , and who have made it my home . My story instead begins in rural Punjab , 4,000 miles away , where my father was born almost 70 years ago . His chances of dying before his fifth birthday were one in four . Today , a child born in the same place is around nine times less likely to die . That is what economic growth means . It means less suffering , it means less misery and it means less death . That is why I became an economist : to build prosperity and to lessen misery . I learned my trade in the Treasury and then went to work in Somaliland , one of the poorest nations on Earth , where I helped to write its economic policy , its budgets and its national development plan . That was where I saw the horrors of climate change lead to drought , hunger and death , but also where I learned that even in the darkest of hours and the most difficult of moments we can build prosperity . Now I stand here as the elected Member of Parliament for my community . It says something remarkable about our nation that the fact that I , the son of immigrants , am standing in this Chamber is in and of itself unremarkable . It speaks to our common culture — a culture forged of different backgrounds , a culture that not only rejects the violence we saw over the summer , but completely rejects its reasoning too . My election represents an historic first for my community . I am a member of an under - represented minority — I am , of course , the first Member of Parliament elected by the men and women of Loughborough to have a beard . To the organisers of the beard of the year competition I say , “ Call me . ” Luckily for me , my dad is not eligible for that particular competition . I know that the right hon . Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) has won the award several times ; I hope he does not mind me winning the prize this time , as long as I let him win the argument . My predecessor in this place , Jane Hunt , was not a contender for that award , but no one can doubt her commitment to team Loughborough , and every single Member across this House and across my community will wish her the very best , especially as she has recovered from cancer . Her predecessor , Baroness Morgan , has talents that are well known both in this and the other place . Before her was my good friend and mentor Andy Reed . Members who know Andy will know that he is still a leading figure in sports policy , and they will also know that Andy is the nicest man in British politics . It is his character that I hope to live up to in this place . However , I rise to speak at the most difficult time for our communities and our nation since 1945 . Our communities are in crisis . Wages in my constituency are £ 10,000 lower than they would be had we grown at new Labour rates . The divides caused by deindustrialisation have widened from cracks into chasms , with young men who used to leave school and get good jobs now 20 % less likely to get any job ; in our most deprived neighbourhoods , life expectancy falling before the pandemic ; more than any fact or figure , the despair , the despondency and the anger ; across and beyond our shores , war in Europe once more , with democracy in danger ; and , most seriously of all , a planet that is burning . For my community , this was the hottest summer we have ever known , followed by the worst flooding we have ever seen , destroying homes . The Prime Minister and I saw that destruction when we visited the homes of Ian and Alan . No one should wake up in the morning to find their home destroyed by flooding , but that will only become more common in the years ahead . What we do in the next decade will determine the fate of our communities , of democracy and of our planet . Either we will rise to this moment , build prosperity for all , protect democracy and stop emitting carbon , or everything we hold dear will crumble and fall . Previous generations have shown us that we can rise to this moment that threatens us . Our country stood alone against fascism in Europe and won . I think today of my constituent William Williams , 104 years old , who flew Spitfires in the war . As his generation rose to their moment , so can we . My community have shown me that we can . When the waters came and the floods rose , my constituents Caz and Carl did not pause to think if they could help , but only how they could help . They organised collections , they provided refuge , and they looked after perfect strangers . It is their spirit that I carry into this place — asking not if , but how . How can we build prosperity and protect our planet from burning ? We can do so by investing in a green transition that creates good jobs and gets wages rising for the people and places left behind when the factories closed . That is what we can achieve , and we are seeing it work already in the United States . In my community there is world - leading hydrogen research and industry . We need green hydrogen for fertiliser and to keep our trucks moving . It is not a coincidence that I have chosen to speak in this debate , with Treasury Ministers on the Front Bench ; I say to them , “ Get out the cheque book”—they are very excited by that—“because I will be asking for money from both the National Wealth Fund and GB Energy . ” However , this is about more than cash . It is about rebuilding hope and prosperity . As a previous generation rose to their moment , in the midst of the most destructive war in the history of humankind , an economist wrote a report that still defines our nation . He wrote : “ Freedom from want can not be forced on a democracy or given to a democracy . It must be won by them . ” It was won by them . They built prosperity for all , with good jobs across our country , education for all , housing for all and healthcare for all . As that generation rose to their moment , so will we , by building prosperity , protecting our planet and ending despair and despondency . As previous generations rose to their moment , we will too , with the hope and determination that defines our communities and that defines our country . Thank you , Ms Ghani . I start by commending my hon . Friends for their impassioned speeches , particularly my hon . Friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . He will be pleased to know that I will not be a contender this year in the competition that he mentioned . Maybe later , menopause depending . It is a huge honour to stand before you today as the newly elected Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North . This moment is not lost on me ; I am filled with immense emotion at the thought of representing the place where everyone I love lives . Portsmouth is a city rich in history , innovation and , most importantly , community spirit and pride . It is also a place of firsts . Throughout our city ’s storied history , we have been pioneers in many fields , be it shipbuilding , maritime trade or cultural advancement . Portsmouth has always led the way , and it is that spirit of innovation that I intend to champion while in this House . I am deeply humbled to make my maiden speech in this debate highlighting the importance of fiscal standards , because during the election campaign so many people told me that their mortgage had gone through the roof , or that they had lost the ability to buy or rent their first home , or indeed any home , because of the actions of the last Government . I understand personally what it is like when a full - time job does not even cover the bills . My gramps was a train driver . He taught me the importance of hard work and public service . He introduced me to the trade union movement and to the Labour party , which I am proud to say have been at the centre of my adult life . My mum was a factory seamstress and my dad was a plumber and then a police officer . As a kid , times were tough , but our house was always full of love , humour and determination . My dad worked three jobs and my mum set about making childhood the very best it could be . My gramps navigated the tracks with precision and care , my mum sewed with love , and my dad served his community . I know I will bring the same attitude to my time in this House , because the opportunity here is so very precious . Like so many of my colleagues on the Government Benches , I was the first in my family to go to university and the first to become a teacher , but thankfully not the last to enter what I still deem to be the very best profession in the world . The right education really does empower young people and give them belief and the opportunity to succeed , whatever their background and circumstances . I am so very proud to be part of a Government who will bring down the barriers to opportunity and tackle child poverty , working across Departments to ensure that all kids get the best start in life . Having been a teacher for 24 years , I know that not everyone has the start in life that I feel privileged to have had . Being allowed to try things and fail was a great lesson . My working - class background means that I sometimes seem a bit impatient . This is because I know that people from my background must fight harder , and do not often get a second chance , so they have to seize every opportunity as it arises . As an MP , I want to champion children and young people from all backgrounds across my city , so that they are given every chance to succeed and fulfil their potential , whatever that may be and wherever that may take them . The children and young people in Portsmouth deserve nothing less . Portsmouth , as I have said , is a city of firsts . The first dry dock in the world was built there in 1495 . The first ragged school was established there in the name of John Pounds in 1818 . We were the first to have a steam railway in 1837 , and the first co - operative society in Britain was set up there in 1796 by dockyard workers fed up with being ripped off by local tradesmen . The first oil - fired HMS Queen Elizabeth was built there in 1913 ; the second ship is very close to my heart . In 1956 , the first football league game played under floodlights took place there ; it was Portsmouth versus Newcastle . In 2024 , the Portsmouth women ’s football club turned professional for the first time . Another first is the nursery on Whale Island ’s naval base ; it is pioneering a brilliant programme to help children deal with separation and the unique challenges of having a parent in the military who is serving away . Portsmouth also produced the first female Secretary of State for Defence , and as I raise this first , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . Penny Mordaunt ’s service to our city , and particularly her role in the coronation of our King , is to be celebrated . In this House she had many roles in Government . She has always championed the Royal Navy , and from what I hear , she loved her time in the parliamentary hairdressers ’ . However , the sword now passes to me , and I will continue her lead as I champion our Royal Navy and our great city , both here and at home . Now for my final first for our great city . For the first time in our city ’s history , both Portsmouth MPs are Labour MPs . We build on the work of our predecessors : Lord Frank Judd ; Sarah McCarthy - Fry ; and my very dear friend , mentor and freeman of our city , Syd Rapson . Together , my good friend the new Minister with responsibility for early education , my hon . Friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and I will work night and day to be champions of change for the city we call home , Portsmouth . I am so very proud of the positive campaign we ran in Portsmouth North . We unashamedly focused on the need for opportunity and for real change . I want to put on record my thanks to the many people who helped me get here , including the Pompey Belles , my amazing family of 17 , friends and the dozens of volunteers from Portsmouth Labour and beyond . As I begin my journey in this House , I know that the need for change has never been so great . As this debate highlights , after 14 years of Tory rule , there are so many uncertainties for the people in my city . People are struggling ; the money just does not go far enough . Schools are underfunded and understaffed . Appointments in primary care , the NHS and dentistry are , in some areas , almost impossible to get . Youth services outside the voluntary sector stretch only to offering support with probation . Our high streets are a mess , and housing is in complete chaos . However , not everything is about money and pay . This is about pride . Pompey people are proud people . They do not shout about successes , unless they are in football . They rarely grumble — equally , unless it is about football . Many of them just get their heads down , roll up their sleeves and get on with it , and many feel betrayed and let down by those who should have been there for them . For some , trust in politicians has disappeared , and I can understand why . People on the doorstep and in the street are wary and fed up with broken promises . Many feel alone , isolated and betrayed . Coming from one of the most trusted professions in the country to one of the least , I get it . I know that , as the MP for Portsmouth North , the chance for opportunity and real change lies with me — real change , that people can see , feel and be part of ; positive change that they can proudly shout about . As Alan Ball said , “ This is Portsmouth , people went to war from this city ” . It is a city that deserves the very best , and I aim to give my very best in representing and serving it . What of the city of Portsmouth ? We officially turn 100 years old in 2026 , and a raft of famous figures have helped shape our city , including Charles Dickens , Isambard Kingdom Brunel and James Callaghan , a Labour Prime Minister in whose honour I hope next year to secure a blue plaque . As rich in culture as our city is , it is also full of unsung people who should be right up there with the famous people I listed . These include — this is in no way an exhaustive list — Shamila from Portsmouth City of Sanctuary , Roni at Pamodzi , Isabelle from Loaves of Love , Laura at STEMunity and Mandy , an award - winning community volunteer . They are just a few of the people in my city making it great . I feel extremely privileged to have seven magnificent wards in my constituency , and to have lived , worked or had family and friends in every single one of them . They are all special and unique in their own right , from Paulsgrove , Drayton and Farlington to Cosham , Hilsea and Nelson , and Copnor and Baffins . They are also all very much Pompey , and when you walk down the street it would not be uncommon to hear , “ Oi , mush , do n’t be a squinny ” , or “ Oi , you loon ” , or “ din ” . As a whole , Portsmouth North is made up of those magnificent seven wards , with 70,000 constituents , 35 schools , our brilliant Queen Alexandra hospital , 11 GP practices , hundreds of charities , small , family - run , large , regional and national businesses , a municipal and thriving international ferry port , seven allotments , 27 pubs , one mobile and four static libraries , a shoreline , the best view in the world to watch the sun rise or set at Portsdown hill with a cracking burger van , a pond , a marshland , a forest — albeit a mini one — and the training ground for the football club who are simply the best . As a season ticket holder and a trust board member , it is sad to say that Fratton Park resides in the south of my city , but I get the brilliantly named John Jenkins training ground . I stand here today not only as the Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North , but as a proud representative of a city that has always been full of firsts , and will have so many more to come . I will acknowledge that together as we work we may face times of choppy waters and , as they say in the Navy , “ Fair winds and following seas ” . And as they say at Fratton Park , “ Play up Pompey ” . Thank you , Ms Ghani , and congratulations on your position . I also congratulate my hon . Friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) on her inspiring speech . I feel like I know her constituency a little better now , and I commend all those who have delivered their maiden speeches today and in recent weeks . You have all been fantastic . It is truly an honour for me to make my maiden speech in a debate on budget responsibility , and I am proud to be elected in this new Labour Government — a Government committed to fiscal responsibility , credibility and accountability . We will ensure that taxpayers ’ money is managed and spent wisely , not recklessly as the previous Administration did . I have the absolute pleasure of representing Swindon North , the town where I was born , raised and am proud to call my home . I am also proud of the fact that I am the first Member of Parliament in Swindon North ’s history to have been born in the town . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Justin Tomlinson , who served as the Member of Parliament for North Swindon for 14 years . Justin was a ferocious campaigner and he also supported many local community groups and was incredibly passionate about football , namely our local club , Supermarine FC . While we do not align politically , Justin has my respect , so I thank him for his service . I would also like to mention another former Member of Parliament for Swindon : one of my mentors , the Labour peer Lord Michael Wills . I have learned so much from Michael . Even though he is going through an incredibly tough time with his health , he has always been there to support and guide me with his expert knowledge . Michael is not only a top - notch politician , but a published author of crime novels . I only recently found that out , but I guess it is not too much of a surprise , considering he was once a Minister of State for Justice . I am truly privileged to follow in his footsteps . If I am half the parliamentarian he was , I will have done Swindon proud . I hope the House will join in wishing him a speedy recovery , and I hope to repay his trust in the Chamber . I am the first Brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt to be elected to Parliament , and I used to run my own academy . Ms Ghani , I promise this is somewhat relevant . When I left the Army , I had offers to teach Brazilian jiu - jitsu across the world , from Abu Dhabi to Arizona , but I picked Swindon . I am often asked , “ Why did you choose Swindon ? ” , but it is an easy answer for me : I love Swindon . I love my hometown . It is a wonderful town built on industry and is full of passion and hope . Our history is a proud history of reinvention . We started life as a farming town with a focus on pig markets , then we transitioned and became a hub for the railways in the 19th century . Generations of railway workers and their families benefited from the cradle - to - grave healthcare that is rumoured to have inspired the great NHS . As technology developed , so did Swindon , and we became home to the likes of Rover , Honda and Mini , but what is next ? We are at a pivotal point in history for my town . Where does Swindon go next ? My hope is that it will go as it always has : into the future , at the forefront of new technologies and green technologies . I hope that my right hon . Friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) hears that . It is my mission to foster green growth in Swindon and see the town thrive again with high - skilled , well - paid jobs . I believe that in a growing , stable economy , we can see that happen . Swindon is not just famous for its high number of roundabouts — if anyone in the Chamber has ever visited , I am sure they will remember those fondly — as we have also had the pleasure of not one , but two James Bond movies being filmed in the town . It is impossible to talk about Swindon without mentioning its people . The people make Swindon what it is : a kind , welcoming , industrious place full of passion , innovation and a desire to support others , including strong local charities such as BEST , a charity at the forefront of tackling antisocial behaviour through mentoring and sports , the Kelly Foundation , which supports people suffering with mental health issues , and Changing Suits , which is breaking down barriers in diverse communities to ensure that people get the help they need . I want to say how proud I am of the residents in Swindon . We have seen tough times across the country , with riots sparked by division invading many communities , but they did not come to Swindon because in Swindon we know that diverse communities can stand strong together against extremism . We will not let division and hatred divide us ; we will unite together and stand strong . Swindon , for all its qualities , is not without its fair share of challenges — challenges that I will face head on . Our people are among the least likely in the country to go on to higher education . We have growing levels of knife crime and antisocial behaviour , raw sewage being pumped into our streams and residents of large housing estates being affected by unjust management companies and fleecehold . However , I am confident that with our renewed Labour party and our ambitious agenda set out in the King ’s Speech — whether that is recruiting and retaining teachers , increasing police presence on our streets , providing mental health professionals in schools or reforming leasehold and fleecehold — all backed and fully costed in a fiscally responsible Budget , the people of Swindon North will experience the positive change they deserve . To finish , I am proud to be here representing such a fantastic group of people . It truly is the opportunity of a lifetime , so once again , I say thank you so much to the people of Swindon North who have put their faith in me . I will not let you down . First , I congratulate Members who have also made their maiden speeches in the Chamber this afternoon . In particular , I congratulate the hon . Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) . I wonder whether his skills as a Brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt led him to apply to be an extra in those movies that he mentioned . I will be watching out for him in the fight scenes . It is the honour and privilege of my life to be standing in this Chamber giving my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Chelmsford . It is a wonderful , young city located in the heart of Essex that I have had the joy to call my home for the past 20 years or so . The constituency covers the main urban area of the city of Chelmsford . It is blessed with beautiful parks and flanking rivers that wind their way through the city centre , passing the home of the Essex Eagles at the Essex county cricket ground . We have a thriving high street that attracts shoppers from miles around . Investment into the constituency from the public and private sectors means that its future continues to look bright . From Waterhouse Farm in the west , to Chelmer village in the east , and from Springfield in the northern reaches to the southern boundaries of Goat Hall and everywhere in between , I am proud to call Chelmsford my home and even prouder to be standing here today representing its constituents in this magnificent place . Chelmsford has one of the busiest two - platform train stations outside of London . Having now rejoined the ranks of the commuters , I know at first hand the importance of the brand - new station being constructed just outside of the northern edge of the constituency . The new Beaulieu Park station will have a significant positive impact on passengers from Chelmsford , giving them more choice and flexibility and removing the need for many of them to travel into the city centre to commence their rail journey . A new station must not be seen as job done , however . Train travel in this country is expensive and complicated . Ultimately , I do not believe that the public care too much about who runs the trains ; they care more about how much rail travel costs them , whether the trains run on time and whether they are comfortable and efficient . They are often frustrated by the bewildering array of ticket options , whose detailed restrictions seem designed either to make them miss their train as they try to work out which one to buy , or to make them buy the wrong ticket . They are not designed for the faint of heart or the novice traveller . That seems like madness if we want to encourage more people to make use of public transport . The whole system needs to be simplified , and I am keen to see the legislation passed yesterday do just that . Without an economy that can support investment in new rail stations or the redevelopment of junctions , including the major Army and Navy interchange in the centre of Chelmsford , we know that such projects are in danger of never happening at all . I am pleased to support the Bill before us today to ensure that the terrible , wasteful fiscal mistakes of previous Governments are not repeated , leaving more headroom for investment in our country ’s future . The new Beaulieu Park station was important to my predecessor , Vicky Ford , and I pay tribute to her dedication to that project . It is the culmination of more than a decade of partnership work in Chelmsford that Vicky joined after her first election to Parliament in 2017 . Knocking on doors throughout this year ’s campaign , many constituents were grateful for her help with issues they had raised with her . They also noted her visible loyalty to her party , as she was rarely seen without her trademark blue nail polish to match her little blue car and an outfit that almost invariably included a splash of blue . I thank her for the time she spent serving the Chelmsford constituency . From the very bottom of my heart , I thank the constituents of Chelmsford who have placed their trust in me to represent them in this place . I know they did not do so lightly . Indeed , it has taken 74 years of careful consideration for the good people of Chelmsford to send to this place anyone other than a Conservative . Indeed , it has been 100 years since they made the choice to elect a Liberal to represent them . That slow pace of electoral change in Chelmsford may lead those not familiar with Essex ’s first city to conclude that Chelmsfordians have little appetite for innovation , but nothing could be further from the truth . Among other things , Chelmsford has a rich and distinguished history in the world of science and technology . Most notably , it hosted the first ever entertainment radio broadcast in the United Kingdom in 1920 from the Marconi New Street works right in the centre , featuring Dame Nellie Melba . That led to regular entertainment broadcasts from Great Baddow in the south of the constituency and eventually to what we now know as the BBC . It is hard to spend much time knocking on doors in Chelmsford and speaking to Chelmsford residents without coming across someone who used to work for Marconi . Its modern - day successor Teledyne e2v , located little more than a stone ’s throw away from the site of the original Marconi factories , has more than taken up the mantle of innovation in Chelmsford . Many of my constituents are now employed there . Think of any space mission of the past few decades and the chances are that its imaging equipment contained components designed and built by Teledyne in Chelmsford . From NASA ’s New Horizons mission to Pluto and the Kuiper belt , launched in 2006 , to the planned 2028 launch of Ariel by the European Space Agency to observe the atmospheres of thousands of planets beyond our own solar system , Teledyne and its employees are reaching for the stars . That is what I want everyone to have the opportunity to do : to reach for the stars , to feel that sense of opportunity and to know that even the sky is not the limit . But they can do that only if we invest , and the very best place for that investment is in our children and young people . We are lucky in Chelmsford to have excellent schools . I thank the teachers and other school staff who work so hard every day to give the children we entrust into their care the best possible start in life , but they are increasingly doing so with their hands tied behind their backs , with dwindling resources , crumbling buildings and ever greater workloads . I am the first in my family to go to university and the first elected to any public office — let alone as a Member of this House . I have been able to achieve that because I have had a loving and supportive family , lots of incredible campaign volunteers — and , of course , a sizeable dose of luck . But I also know that a critical part of my success is owed to the amazing state school education that I received , the dedicated and inspirational teachers I was lucky enough to be taught by throughout my school life , and the extracurricular activities — in my case , largely music based — that broadened my horizons and lifted my eyes to the stars . I worry that that is not the overwhelming experience of those going through our education system today . I worry that children are going through the day with little or no food in their bellies , I worry that schools are having to cut clubs because they no longer have the time or the resources to hold them , and I worry that the performing arts , such as music and drama , have been seen for too long by previous Governments as expendable and an unimportant luxury without recognition that they provide children with the skills and confidence to stand up on large stages — dare I say , in parliamentary Chambers — and be heard . If you are a child with special educational needs or disabilities , well , good luck with that , because the system is utterly , tragically , devastatingly broken . But I also take hope from the wind of change that blew just a couple of months ago . We know that there will be difficult choices ahead , but my hope is that we recognise that investing early on and giving children the best possible start can pay much greater dividends in the future . When Guglielmo Marconi brought his fledgling inventions and experiments to the United Kingdom in 1896 , he did so because he believed that this is a country that can see potential and will invest in that potential for the long term . It paid off , and a whole industry grew from the humble beginnings of a short radio broadcast in the heart of my constituency . Whatever choices are made by the Government in the looming Budget , it is my sincere hope that they recognise the importance of giving schools and teachers the resources they need to allow all children to reach for the stars . I would like to commend the hon . Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for a great speech . I know Chelmsford well — it is a beautiful town — and I commend her passion for supporting young people in schools and their journey , which is very important and something that we need to protect . Thank you , Ms Ghani , for allowing me today to make my first contribution to the House . I think it is right to start off by thanking my predecessor as MP , Sir James Duddridge , for 19 years of dedicated service . He became MP in 2005 when Southend East and Rochford was newly redrawn . The rural areas to the north of Southend have been brought back within the constituency for the first time in many years . Throughout many boundary iterations , from Southend East and Rochford to Rochford and Southend East and back again — you can see the creativity in renaming the constituency — the area has always been Tory - held , up until now . I am particularly proud to speak here today as the seat ’s first ever Labour representative . The constituency consists of not just the city of Southend but the villages of Great Wakering , Canewdon , Barling , Paglesham , Stambridge and Shoeburyness , the suburbs of Southchurch and Thorpe Bay , and Rochford itself . It is a beautiful constituency , rich in culture , where you should bring your walking boots as well as your swimming costume . It is the place where Dame Helen Mirren went to primary school and home to the Cliffs Pavilion , which hosted Oasis in 1995 — that might be tricky next time round depending on who can get tickets . As a Southender , I am contractually obliged to mention that Southend is the site of the longest pier in the world , at 2,158 metres , with the option to walk or take a purpose - built train . I made the mistake some years ago of walking it with my son — he is a little bit older now , and he is up in the Gallery . My calves were struggling by the end of it . From watching the maiden speeches of Labour colleagues past and present , I have been struck by the nature of the local industry that is so often name - checked . Tin , pottery , steel , textiles and coal are among the staple products in historical Labour seats . Those are noble and important goods — they are Labour goods — but they are not the stock - in - trade of my own seat . Southend ’s primary industry and expertise has always been tourism : good times , escapism and happy memories . Those are our exports . Southend is a city that allows people to meet a sea turtle , admire a vintage car , win a large teddy bear and even have their palm read , often during the course of a single day . It is a place where past generations have gone in search of freedom and pleasure , and it is hard in today ’s world to think of a calling more important than that . Indeed , the musician Billy Bragg immortalised one of the roads that takes people to Southend in his 1985 song “ A13 Trunk Road to the Sea ” . The chorus name - checks Shoeburyness , and Bragg later said that he hoped his song would imbue the A13 — I know this is a bit of a reach — with the same romance as route 66 in America , “ The Road to Your Dreams , ” which runs from Chicago to Los Angeles . That was a lofty lyrical ambition indeed , and it was always going to be a hard ask , but speaking as someone who grew up in the east end of London in that era , I can confirm that the idea of Southend always carried a certain magic . That is one reason why I feel so privileged to represent the area today . Another reason is the constituency ’s military heritage . At the eastern part of my seat we find Shoebury garrison , an area steeped in military history , and in the north is Southend airport , which now serves holidaymakers but in a past life was Rochford airfield , a fighter base that helped to fend off fascism during the second world war . As a former soldier , I was stationed in the Southend area for a short while . One of my great pleasures when canvassing is running into old Army friends still living in the seat — if they are prepared to open the door to me . For me , as someone who left school with no qualifications , got into a lot of trouble as a young boy and needed a second chance , night school and the military provided a lifeline . I quite simply would not be here today in the mother of all Parliaments without the opportunities that gave me and the ethos of service that it instilled in me . To properly understand Southend , we need to understand its proud military history . The city is built on a unique blend . The discipline and the dignity of the armed forces is combined with the creativity and the freedom of the arts — a place for both the soldier and the singer , if you like . But there is a risk of getting too misty - eyed . Coastal areas such as mine have been on the economic sharp end for 30 or 40 years . The root cause of that , most notably , is budget air travel , and that is not going away . Recent years have brought fresh challenges . Southend ’s economy was at the sharp end during the covid pandemic . The city is still in its recovery phase . Many of the jewels in Southend ’s crown — the Kursaal venue on the seafront or the Freight House in Rochford — remain unused or underused . I am determined that these buildings will come back to life again , as part of our future . I believe that change is afoot . There is a Southend renaissance at work . The people of Southend are ready to seize the initiative and want more . Southenders are strong , independent and unbelievably hard - working . This weekend we held City Jam , an awe - inspiring international street art festival , now in its third year . But we can not do this alone . That is one of the reasons why I am so pleased not just to be Southend ’s first ever Labour MP , but to be one of many first - time Labour MPs in seaside seats that we have never won before . Seats such as Southend East and Rochford need a real and impactful regional policy . Too little thought has been put into how we build on existing assets and specialisms , to create a sense of place and an economic centre of gravity . Southend East and Rochford ’s future will be found in modern technology , modern infrastructure and green energy , by identifying opportunities in well - paid , modern job sectors . We need a year - round economy , not just a seasonal one , so that young people can move from seasonal work into better - paid positions . Simply put , Southend East and Rochford will need to regain its cultural capital . This is something I have some experience in , having been one of the creative pioneers of east London ’s creative industries . My wife Debbie and my children are here in the Gallery today , and they have always been there for me — certainly during my career pivot from the creative industries into politics . I thank them for their unwavering support and complete belief in me . I believe it is my duty to help shape and create the future jobs and businesses for this generation and future generations to grow into , just like Adebayo Alaba and Atinuke Awesu , my late parents , who sacrificed everything as part of the Windrush generation to leave their families and communities behind in Nigeria in order to raise a family here , in one of the most welcoming countries in the world . Simply put , it is now my job to ensure that communities such as Southend East and Rochford are vibrant , dynamic , stable and welcoming . When we talk about the public finances , as we are in Committee today , we should all bear that in mind . Our economy will be strongest if we can fulfil the potential in every corner of the country , including on the esplanades of Southend and in the town centres of Rochford and Southend — places that have so much to contribute to our economy and our culture , yet too often have been sidelined . I look forward to representing my constituents in this House . I look forward to contributing to future debates about our economic future , and I look forward to contributing to many other discussions . Thank you , Ms Nokes , for giving me this opportunity to make my maiden speech . Before I do , I pay tribute to the hon . Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , who spoke of his and his constituency ’s proud military past . I am sure that he will see his constituency through these tough challenges and on to a brighter future . It goes without saying that it is a great privilege and an honour of a lifetime to be here , having been elected by the people of Woking . I thank them for electing me as their Member of Parliament . However , I must begin by addressing the Bill and severe crisis facing my local authority , Woking borough council . Despite being relatively small , the Conservatives left Woking with more than £ 2 billion of debt following risky investment decisions . This legacy is one of negative equity , service cuts and unsustainable debt repayments . It could be argued that the Conservatives in Woking invented Truss economics before the former right hon . Member for South West Norfolk had her small stint as Prime Minister . What has happened in my constituency shows why the Bill is so important . I fear that , without support from the new Government , the situation in Woking , like the rest of local government , will only worsen . My constituents will suffer the most , and that is unacceptable when it is not their fault . I urge the Government to step in and provide the assistance we so desperately need to ensure that my community can recover and thrive . Most people might think of Woking as a modern constituency , but it has a rich history that stretches back through the centuries . Woking was mentioned in the Domesday Book . Sutton Place , famous for being the former home of Paul Getty , dates from 1525 , and is one of the oldest unfortified houses in the country . Woking palace — now sadly a ruin — was a royal residence for both Henry VII and Henry VIII . As a result , Woking football club , my local team , is affectionately known as the Cards , after Cardinal Wolsey . Several Acts of Parliament have had an especially profound impact on Woking . For example , the Basingstoke canal was authorised by Parliament in 1778 . The canal runs through much of Woking constituency . It has shaped our area , and is a popular cycling and walking route and a haven for nature . But like so many places in the country , Woking as we know it today was shaped by the railways . With steam , stone and iron , Woking was cast into the proud town it is today . In the mid-1800s we laid the foundations to become the great commuter town we are . Woking is also a wonderfully diverse and welcoming place , home to the Shah Jahan mosque , the oldest in the country . A vibrant Muslim community has developed in the town as a result . More recently , we have welcomed Ukrainian refugees , and I attended many events to support our new Ukrainian residents with my predecessor , our former MP Jonathan Lord . That was a powerful example of cross - party co - operation , and I thank Jonathan for his service as Woking ’s MP , especially on this humanitarian issue where there was no disagreement whatsoever . Although we were opponents at the last election , I wish him and his family well for the future . Woking ’s MP before Jonathan was Humfrey Malins , who founded the Immigration Advisory Service in 1992 , which to this day provides free asylum and immigration advice to those who need it . He got a CBE for his work . Woking has a proud history of electing MPs who welcome immigration , and I am pleased to follow that tradition . Our town is also known for its connection to McLaren ; it hosts its Formula 1 team and luxury cars are built there . I was privileged to make a visit only yesterday . As a young child of around 11 , I remember watching with excitement as McLaren toured the town with its Formula 1 cars , driven by Mika Häkkinen , to celebrate their success . McLaren is winning again , much like the Liberal Democrats . The town also takes great pride in being home to the World Wide Fund for Nature . We have pressing issues , such as sewage in our rivers and the fight against climate change . I am already working alongside the five other newly elected Liberal Democrat MPs in Surrey to hold Thames Water to account for sewage dumping in our local rivers and streams . One of my first acts as an MP is to bring all the surrey MPs together to meet Thames Water to petition it for improvements and a better service . Woking is fortunate to be surrounded by green spaces . I love walking my dachshund Toffee on Horsell Common , where HG Wells famously landed his aliens in “ War of the Worlds ” . So it was not a great surprise when Ed Davey ’s Liberal Democrats turned up and started campaigning with their out - of - this - world stunts . Of course , I ’m only “ woking”—I would n’t dare call my Liberal Democrat colleagues aliens . Getting back to the matter at hand , my constituency has a much - loved local hospital , Woking community hospital . Despite feeling like I was born and bred in Woking , I was not actually born in the constituency . Actually , no one has been born in a hospital in Woking for generations . I was born in Frimley Park hospital , one of the nearby hospitals we depend on , as Woking lacks maternity services . However , Frimley Park is plagued with RAAC — reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete — and its future is far from certain . I will work with my hon . Friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) to press the Government for a solution to rebuild Frimley Park hospital . Another major issue is the cost of rent and mortgages . As someone under 40 — just — I understand these issues deeply . They have been raised consistently by local people on the doorstep . The increased cost of mortgages and rents in the past two years is a further reason why the Bill is so important . My journey into politics began because of Surrey county council ’s failure to protect vulnerable children . At the time , it was rated the worst county council in the country because of that failure . We can not allow vulnerable children to be failed again . The wider theme of why I was elected , and indeed why so many of my hard - working Liberal Democrat colleagues have been elected , is that we understand our communities ’ local issues . I have worked for 15 years in local government and served as deputy leader of Woking Council . I have seen first - hand the crippling issues that some councils face . When I look at the faces of the Liberal Democrat MPs here , I see people who have worked hard in local government for years . What a glorious theme for this new Parliament : a cohort of 72 who understand the local issues our communities face , and a force for good in the country and in the Chamber when we need it most . Thank you , Ms Nokes . It is such a great privilege to speak in this debate and make my maiden speech after the hon . Members for Woking ( Mr Forster ) and for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . My hon . Friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) made a fantastic speech about the city in his constituency , which I have had the great privilege of swimming in . His speech did due justice to that great place . My hon . Friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) made a faintly terrifying speech about his Brazilian jujitsu skills , and he certainly did justice to Swindon , too . It is a great honour to speak in the Chamber as the Member of Parliament for Rother Valley . For so many on the Labour Benches in particular , making our maiden speeches is the conclusion of long and hard - fought campaigns in which we were ultimately victorious . In the early hours of 5 July , which just happened to be my birthday , we celebrated the end of 14 years of Conservative Government and the first Labour Government of my adult life , but we also humbly accept the responsibility that we have been given . In the context of an often bitter and heated political campaign , and from the thousands of valued conversations I had in my constituency , one can not avoid the fact that we as a country face daunting and urgent challenges . We can not overlook the deep apathy towards the ability of politics , and indeed this place , to effect change . There has been the rise of online disinformation blaming bogeymen who do not exist . Conspiracy theorists and keyboard warriors purposefully ignore the complexities of the world around us for attention . Political culture too often thrives on division and controversy , not the common good . The hyperactive vitriolic politics seen so often across the Atlantic is seeping into our discourse here , undermining constructive dialogue . There is an epidemic of alienation among our young people , with levels of self - harm and suicide in my constituency increasing all the time . Children are arriving at school still in nappies and too often without breakfast in their bellies . Waiting lists for mental health support now stretch to half a decade , with many young people reaching their majority by the time they are seen . Too many people in my constituency feel they have to leave their village or town to get on in life . There is a disillusionment that their home , their community , their place is no longer offering the security and hope that people deserve . There is a fear for the future . I was told so often during the election campaign , “ What ’s the point of politics ? This country is broken . ” Perhaps some of those factors came to the fore over the summer recess , when a group organised to attend a hotel just a few miles from my constituency in Wath , planning to set that building on fire knowing full well there were innocent people inside . The pictures on our televisions were difficult to comprehend . I spoke to a young mother who had been made homeless and was being temporarily accommodated there with her children . The terror she described will haunt me forever . But from the gloom of that violent act came hope . The day after the hotel was attacked , I reached out to the Muslim community in my constituency and was invited to a meeting after evening prayer . I arrived eager to show solidarity , but anxious about the fear and damage that the community would have suffered — and yes , there was plenty of concern . But the first question I encountered was not one of anger or retribution , but instead a comment urging me to speak with the perpetrators of the violence in order to better understand the causes and motivation . It was a moment of great generosity and sensitivity , and one that will always stay with me . Indeed , that spirit of togetherness , caring about the bonds that unite us , is everywhere to be seen in the Rother Valley . Dinnington boxing club held an event after the riots , with several south Yorkshire boxing clubs , to show unity and togetherness ; a determination to portray south Yorkshire in a different light . That spirit runs through the club . I will always recall having a pint at the Little Mester in North Anston when a young lad from the club arrived to rapturous applause , only to explain that he had casually run a marathon that morning , on his own , wholly unorganised , to raise money for a local children ’s hospice . He had heard that it required more funds for toys . I think of the dementia café in Winthrop Gardens , which provides such an invaluable service , or the Maltby Lions , who are out every week , rain or shine , to raise money for deserving causes . I think of the community café at the beautiful Ulley reservoir , the work of the Salvation Army at the Dinnington food bank , the Community Fridge in Kiveton Park , the volunteer gardeners in Harthill , the community energy project in Woodsetts , or the MacMillan coffee mornings in Anston . This spirit ultimately wins the day , even in the shadow of horror . In a previous life , as a pupil barrister , I sat behind prosecuting counsel at the trial of the murderer of Jo Cox MP . I learnt an awful lot — not about legal process or criminal procedure , but from Jo ’s family , who arrived each day at court with smiles , holding hands and with a bag of sweets that they offered to assembled journalists , security guards and indeed the lawyers , including the defence barrister . I take inspiration from their strength . It was an honour to campaign for my hon . Friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) in that vital by - election , and it is even more so to share these green Benches with her today . That spirit of generosity , the strength of unity in the face of the darkest forces , is what I will try to further in my role in this place . In that spirit , I praise Alexander Stafford , my predecessor , who was a hard - working MP , and who leaves the House as his brother arrives — no doubt the hon . Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) will follow in his brother ’s footsteps . In this place , Alexander will perhaps be best remembered for his work promoting the independence of Somaliland , and I know from my own social media that many in Hargeisa were very grateful for his adoption of their cause . I thank him for his service . Let me end by saying that I will work every day in this place to do my utmost to tackle the forces of division and darkness during my time here , and to do my bit to bring people together , because after all , as Jo Cox told us , we have more in common than that which divides us . I pay tribute to the hon . Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for her excellent maiden speech . Indeed , we have heard more than half a dozen excellent maiden speeches today , several of which touched on the climate crisis and the future of children in our country , themes that relate to my amendment . I was touched to hear the passion with which all the new Members spoke about their experiences and commitments . My amendment 5 requires the OBR to report on the impact of fiscally significant measures announced by the Government on the UK ’s statutory net zero target . The justification for my amendment is that we simply can not separate the economy and the climate — they are interlinked . To deliver the green economic transformation that we so urgently need , as referenced by hon . Members speaking earlier , every single policy must be aligned with the UK ’s net zero target and every Government spending decision should be as well . It makes sense to increase the OBR ’s remit on net zero to specifically consider the impact of climate risks on economic stability , and how far policies introduced at fiscal events will reduce or increase these risks . Fiscal events , namely Budgets and spending reviews , lock in what is happening in our economy for years to come , even generations , so it beggars belief that they are not properly taking account of climate impacts . Whether those policies are spending on new roads , subsidies and tax breaks for oil and gas , investment in renewables infrastructure or giveaways like a freeze on fuel duty , they all have direct impacts on the UK ’s prospect of meeting our net zero targets . Those impacts should be made clear and considered explicitly in the policy - making paper . We need to be thinking about the impacts of today ’s economic policies on the prospects for future generations . The costs of failing to take an approach that considers climate impacts are eye watering . A 2022 report by the Grantham Institute found that climate change damages to the UK are projected to triple by 2050 and more than double again 50 years later , so climate prudence and fiscal prudence are one and the same thing . Given that the OBR ’s main duty is to assess the health of the UK economy and the sustainability of its public finances , it needs to be charged with assessing whether fiscal events are reducing or increasing climate risks to the economy . Bringing net zero into the OBR ’s mandate is consistent with the Government ’s five missions . Indeed , in announcing its clean energy superpower document , Labour said that it will add net zero mandates to all relevant regulators that need it . I would argue that the OBR is a relevant regulator that needs a net zero mandate . That is why I am proposing this probing amendment today . As other Members have mentioned , it would also represent increased transparency around how fiscal policy choices are impacting the UK ’s progress towards our net zero targets and help ensure that future Governments also consider that . It is also an important stepping stone towards a net zero test , which would assess the aggregate climate and nature impact of every fiscal event . Again , this is something that Labour committed to in opposition . In his winding - up remarks , will the Minister comment on whether he is able to ensure that this test is integrated into the legislation that he is proposing ? I hope that Labour will use this opportunity to commit publicly to introducing a net zero test in Government , and will take a step towards doing that by backing my amendment . Thank you , Madam Chair . Before I talk about Plymouth , may I celebrate the amazing speeches that we have heard this afternoon , and pay tribute to the wealth of experience and passion , not just on the Government Benches but across the Chamber ? It is really heartening . My hon . Friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) spoke about the spirit that we have all seen in the communities that we represent , and the confidence that he has in that spirit to overcome some of the challenges that we are facing as a nation and in our communities . I completely share that . Let me now talk about Plymouth , the city that I call home and the city that I am so proud to represent in this place as the Member for Plymouth Moor View . I want to talk about our people , our institutions , our rolling hills , grey warships glinting in the south coast sun and the noise that 18,000 Argyle fans make on match day . I want to talk about the gritty determination of staff at one of the biggest hospitals in the country , and I want to talk about hope . I will frame this speech with two principles that I lived by during my time in the Royal Marines , principles that are well known amongst the armed forces community in Plymouth . First , a leader must be a dealer of hope . When the chips are down , leaders have to step forward and give hope . I believe that is our job in Parliament too . In Plymouth , communities come together to give each other hope . There is immense strength and resilience in the streets , the housing estates , the front rooms and wherever folks get together and organise to change the lives they and their neighbours are living , making simple , tangible changes by addressing the needs in front of them . We have Whitleigh Big Local , the Four Greens Community Trust and Connecting Youth CIC , to name just a few , working in partnership with the local community to improve the things that matter and to bring hope . I want to use my position in this House to empower our community to effect change and generate hope that life will get better and that families can be lifted out of poverty . Today , relative child poverty in Plymouth Moor View is at 23 % , set against the regional figure of 17 % . I will not accept rising child poverty , because the second principle that I live by , one I believe a lot of us share , is this : “ The standard you walk past is the standard you accept . ” If we see something that we know is wrong and we keep walking , we are effectively saying we are happy with that situation . The harder option is not to walk past , but to take action . Derriford hospital in Plymouth serves almost 2 million people across Devon and Cornwall . I have met the nurses , paramedics , doctors and volunteers , who do fantastic work under immense pressure . They are people who do not just walk past . However , the hospital is up against it : in June alone , there were 5,000 instances where a patient waited more than four hours in A&E. That represents a series of personal tragedies for the patients affected . With the new Government , I will work tirelessly to change that story . Away from the hospital , the beating heart of our city is Plymouth Argyle football club , which is in its second season now in the championship , making it one of the top clubs in the English football league . Yet in Plymouth , many families struggle to afford access to sport for their kids . I am a keen footballer and I believe in the power of sport to set young people up for life . I will use my platform to improve access to sport in Plymouth , because a standard where this country has the finest football leagues , watched the world over , but our own youngsters can not afford to play is not a standard I will walk past . I pay tribute to the excellent work that the Argyle community trust and the Plymouth football boot bank do already to broaden access to sport in Plymouth . As a former Royal Marines commando , it is a particular privilege to represent the city that is home to not only the largest naval base in western Europe , but the Royal Marines , who are still headquartered in Plymouth . Ours is a city where so many residents have served in uniform , and I take this opportunity to thank every single one of them for their service and dedication . I also pay tribute to my predecessor for his heartfelt efforts to raise the profile of the veterans agenda . For centuries , Plymouth has had a proud military history , and the Prime Minister recently called it “ the frontline of defence in this country ” . Navy , Marines and Army personnel have deployed from Plymouth for hundreds of years . The tradition of proud military service runs through our city like the writing in a stick of rock . Now , as we find ourselves as a country in another moment of critical international instability , Plymouth is again a keystone of our national security . Devonport dockyard is the home port for the frigates , survey vessels and amphibious shipping that are crucial for our safety . It is also where the submarines that host our nuclear deterrent are maintained , and will be for generations to come . We are also home to highly skilled small and medium - sized enterprises such as MSubs — makers of unmanned submersible craft used in the most special military projects — Barden bearings and Collins Aerospace , whose cutting - edge engineering is integral to the UK ’s modern weapons systems . From our military institutions and our manufacturing base to our hospital , our football club and our dockyard , we stand up and we serve in Plymouth . We give a lot to this nation , but for all this — if I can borrow a phrase from a friend and a constant source of advice , my hon . Friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — Plymouth does not get its fair share . I will work tirelessly with the Government to change that , because in Labour we respect service , and ours will be a Government of service — a Government of hope . As I served my country before in uniform , so I will serve my city now in office . As I was trained to do in the Marines , I will strive to be a dealer of hope . When it comes to taking action , I will remember , along with colleagues on both sides of the House , that the standard we walk past is the standard we accept .