As has been mentioned , only one Football League club is represented by a Conservative MP , and that is the mighty Bromley football club . My efforts to bring about a chant of “ You ’ve got the only Tory ” across opposition stands in league two are ongoing , and I will keep the House informed of how well they proceed . Hayes Lane , the club ’s ground since 1938 , stands proudly in my constituency . Bromley FC is a football fan ’s dream . We have gone from strength to strength in recent years . Earning promotion to the conference south league in 2006 , the club was crowned champion eight years later . We climbed the national league , reaching the FA trophy final in 2018 and earning promotion in 2021 , but our rise did not stop there . Bromley faced Ryan Reynolds ’s Wrexham at Wembley for a second shot at the FA trophy in 2022 . It was an amazing day , and one that I remember well . While we may not have had “ Deadpool ” , we did have Michael Cheek — Cheeky , the Maradona of Bromley — who secured the silverware with the game ’s only goal . I love Michael Cheek , and I congratulate him on being named league two player of the year last night ; it is well deserved . Last year , a moment 132 years in the making arrived as Bromley was promoted to the English football league for the first time in its history . Why is this story relevant ? Bromley ’s football dream was realised thanks to sound management , private investment and raw talent , not a state regulator , and I congratulate Robin Stanton - Gleaves , Mark Hammond — Hammo — and Andy “ Woody ” Woodman on all that they have done for the club . As a Ravens fan , when I look at Labour ’s supposedly independent football regulator , I have to ask whether it would help Bromley FC or aspiring clubs like it , and in its current state , the answer is a resounding no . When the Bill was first proposed , it was proposed with the right intentions . It would protect cherished community clubs from bad owners , and would prevent a breakaway European super league . However , Labour ’s regulator is morphing into a meddling , costly political deadweight for English football , because the regulator will be neither independent nor impartial . This is cronyism at its worst . Supporters of lower league football clubs know the score : relegation all but confirmed , millionaire financiers abandoned , desperately clinging on to former glory , leaky at the back , midfield absent , not much going on up top , leadership completely out of their depth — but enough about the Conservative party . Despite the Conservatives ’ attempt to turn this debate into a game of two faces , I have a serious point . In 2008 , business partners Yasuaki Kagami and George Synan became majority shareholders at Plymouth Argyle , which had been shortlisted to host games at the 2018 world cup , had England ’s bid been successful . It was not , of course , so their interest in the club collapsed . Finances were withheld and Argyle , with one eye on the premier league , were relegated to the championship , then league one and then league two , in the space of three years . They were on the brink of insolvency before they were rescued by James Brent . English football clubs such as Argyle should never become cash cows for vultures such as Kagami and Synan . Our largest clubs should never become money laundering operations for oligarchs tied to murderous dictators . Our football clubs are the beating hearts of our communities , around which local economies thrive ; identities , friendships and rivalries are forged ; and our culture is exported . I broadly welcome this Bill for the regulation of ownership that it will introduce , but there are no mentions of slavery or human rights in the ownership test . Will the Government answer whether they consider those issues important in the fit and proper ownership of clubs ? I have one more point . It is unfortunate that the Government voted down an amendment from the Lords that would have reduced gambling advertisement and sponsorship in English football . There is an obvious opportunity here to protect our young people from a toxic industry that deliberately preys on the vulnerable . I do not often give too much credit to Arsenal alumni , but I know that Paul Merson would have wanted this . Will the Government tell me why they voted down that amendment ? I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the debate on this important piece of legislation and what it will mean for football fans in Hertford and Stortford , thousands of whom travel week in , week out to premier league games in London , to which we are ably linked by our rail services . Before I turn to the specific measures in the Bill , I would like to touch on why football is so important to communities such as mine . Since my election in July last year , it has been a pleasure to visit and watch a number of the non - league clubs across Hertford and Stortford , and to meet some of the managers , coaches , players and volunteers who keep them going and bring our community together . So many players at non - league clubs such as those go on to much larger teams in the future , too . We can not overestimate the importance of grassroots football in our communities , and I pay tribute to Bishop ’s Stortford football club , Sawbridgeworth Town FC , Hertford Town football club and Ware football club . I particularly pay tribute to Ware and Sawbridgeworth , which have just avoided relegation in the latest season . I would also like to briefly update the House on the 93rd birthday of John Staines . Some Members may remember that I have raised the topic of Hertford Town football club ’s drive to get 1,000 people down to their game against Flackwell Heath to mark John ’s birthday following more than 60 years of dedicated support for the club , 30 of them as a volunteer . It was heartwarming to see our community turn out to recognise John ’s contribution to the club , and I am pleased to report that we saw just over 1,000 people turn out in Hertford to do so . It has become apparent in recent years that we need to protect our game , and I applaud the Bill ’s aim of protecting and promoting the sustainability of English football in the interests of fans and the local communities that football clubs serve . I welcome its core objectives of ensuring sound club finances and systemic financial resilience and safeguarding club heritage . In particular , the creation of an independent football regulator is most welcome , delivering on this Government ’s manifesto commitment to protect clubs and empower fans . In the time I have left , I want to mention one quick point that was raised with me by some of our non - league clubs ahead of this debate , which I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could address . Clubs have highlighted the disparity in contract regulation between non - league and professional football ; currently , non - league players can be offered a full - time contract only at the age of 18 , while in professional football players can be contracted at 17 . To ensure fairness to our grassroots clubs , will the Secretary of State consider equalising the age at which non - league clubs and professional clubs can offer full - time contracts to players in the future ? It has been my absolute pleasure to spend time speaking to our local non - league clubs . I know that our residents are immensely passionate about football , and it is fantastic that this Bill is being brought forward to put our fans right at the heart of that great game .