I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . Thank you for allowing me to make my first contribution to the House in this important debate . In my previous role I was proud to play my part in changing the Labour party , so it is apt that I should give my maiden speech as we discuss changing and modernising this House . I associate myself with the comments of my hon . Friends and other Members and congratulate all those who have made their maiden speeches , both today and in the past few days . It is a privilege to stand here as the newly elected Member of Parliament for Cardiff West . It is not an exaggeration to say that I stand in the shadow of some impressive individuals when it comes to my predecessors . I am the fifth individual since world war two to have the honour of representing Cardiff West ; of my four predecessors , three stood under the Labour banner and went on to forge formidable careers here in Westminster . One served as Speaker of this House . Rhodri Morgan , my predecessor but one , served in this House for nearly 14 years before beginning his next act as First Minister of Wales , serving in that role for over nine years . Rhodri was a political giant , and very much loved and missed by my constituents . As for my immediate predecessor , Kevin Brennan , as well as serving in a number of ministerial roles in the last Labour Government , his single biggest impact in this House might be his membership of the parliamentary rock band MP4 . So we have a Speaker , a First Minister and a lead guitarist — for me , the pressure really is on . In all seriousness , Kevin served Cardiff West with distinction for 23 years , and he is a quality act to follow . That quality was clearly spotted by the House when Kevin gave his maiden speech , on 20 June 2001 . After finishing it , Peter Bottomley , the last Parliament ’s Father of the House , commented that Kevin “ will be one of the stars of the Parliament . He has the sort of speaking talent that probably guarantees his joining the Whips Office and being shut up for a bit . ”—[Official Report , 20 June 2001 ; Vol . 370 , c. 129 . ] Mr Bottomley was prescient because , following the 2005 general election , Kevin was indeed appointed an Assistant Government Whip . I want to place on the record my thanks to Kevin and his wife Amy for their generosity , advice and support . Having listened to a number of maiden speeches over the past few days of debate , I believe it has become a tradition to refer to one ’s constituency as the most beautiful in all the land . As this place is steeped in tradition , with perhaps a sprinkling of modernisation to come , I would not want to disappoint , so I can confirm that Cardiff West is indeed the most beautiful — or , as we say in Welsh , prydferth or hardd . Until this election , Cardiff West existed entirely within the boundaries of the city of Cardiff , but following the most recent set of boundary changes , the ward of Pontyclun in Rhondda Cynon Taf now forms part of it . Cardiff West ’s gain is Pontypridd ’s loss , as Pontyclun is a vibrant community , full of good people and a thriving high street that we must strive to maintain . On that note , I thank my hon . Friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) for her work representing Pontyclun in the last Parliament . Moving east , there a diverse , prydferth and hardd constituency . In one corner is Llandaff , a city within a city that houses the beautiful Llandaff cathedral , one of two cathedrals in Cardiff . In St Fagans , we find the St Fagans National Museum of History , one of Europe ’s pre - eminent open - air museums . In Canton there is a thriving cultural scene , including Chapter arts centre and the Corp. Cardiff West also regularly punches above its weight when it comes to sport . It is home to Glamorgan cricket , Sophia gardens , the athletics stadium at Cardiff international sports stadium and Cardiff City stadium , the home of Cardiff City football club and the Welsh national team . Cardiff West also houses Riverside , Pontcanna , Fairwater and Pentrebane , Pentyrch , Radyr and Morganstown , Gwaelod - y - Garth , Ely and Caerau , to name but a few . Each area is defined by its own unique character , but the common thread that runs through them is a proud community , replete with families , local activists , sports clubs , volunteers and faith leaders , all committed to serving the communities they call home . That became clear to me during the election campaign . As their newly elected Member of Parliament , I will work with anyone who genuinely seeks to support Cardiff West . In the past few days , the Labour Government have set out their plans to deliver on the commitments we made to the British people at the last election . Throughout that election campaign I met countless constituents who demanded change , but not just for change ’s sake . They wanted change with a purpose : change that would improve their lives by making work pay , by delivering a new deal for working people , by rebuilding their broken public services , by making their streets safer , by offering a more inclusive and tolerant discourse , and by making an offer of a future for our country that is more positive , more hopeful and more honest . Of course , for us to deliver that change we must embody that change , and we need only look around the Chamber to see that . In this Parliament , 263 women were elected , representing a record high of just over 40 % . This is also the most diverse Parliament by race , and this Parliament includes the largest cohort of LGBT+ Members of any Parliament in the world . Progress does not always move in a straight line , but if one looks around this Chamber and considers the tenor of maiden speeches we have heard in these last few days of debate , there are indeed reasons for hope . At the outset of this new Parliament , that deserves special mention ; while we can disagree in politics , we should always strive to do so with decency , honesty and respect . Doing so is not a sign of weakness , but of confidence in ourselves . Being elected has been both thrilling and humbling in equal measure ; I am sure that many of my colleagues across both sides of the House have experienced not dissimilar thoughts and feelings . However , I am not so blinded by the excitement of being elected to this great place to forget that this is not about me . It is about what I can and will do to repay the trust of my constituents and to fight for the causes that matter to them — causes such as defending our arts and culture , particularly the cuts that threaten the existence of the Welsh National Opera ; supporting our Welsh and Westminster Governments to cut the levels of child poverty , recruit the new teachers we need and cut NHS waiting times ; unlocking our green energy potential to deliver cheaper and greener energy ; and making work pay by delivering on that new deal for working people . Ultimately , of course , it is not just about what we each say ; it is about what we do . For so long as I am here , I will work hard for a stronger and fairer Cardiff West . Finally , I want to thank those people but for whom I would not be here giving this maiden speech . The first thanks go to my family : my Mum , my Dad and my sister . My family have inspired my values of public service and have made me a better person . The other thanks go to my husband , who is up in the Gallery with my sister . We celebrated our six - year wedding anniversary during the final days of the campaign , but we actually met more than 12 years ago at a time when I was still struggling to acknowledge , let alone accept , that I was gay . Through all that , he had the love and patience to support me in accepting who I was and to be honest about that . I truly would not be here without his love , support and friendship . As a proud Welshman and a proud gay man , I am excited to play my part in the Government ’s programme of national renewal . In so doing , I will endeavour to represent Cardiff West to the very best of my abilities . May I offer you my congratulations , Madam Deputy Speaker , and also thank you for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech and , in particular , to make it during this fundamentally important debate , which will ensure that we are not just a Government of service but a House of service . In my speech I will mention many people who have done precisely that — served others . It is a great pleasure to follow the hon . Member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , and to hear such excellent maiden speeches from Members on both sides of the House . It is an honour to serve the community where I was born , raised my family , and worked in local secondary schools as a science teacher and then a deputy headteacher . I pay tribute to my predecessors , Jane Stevenson and — given parliamentary boundary changes — Eddie Hughes as well . I thank them for their faithful service to our communities . I also wish to honour the late Ian Brookfield , former leader of Wolverhampton city council , who sadly passed away at the age of 57 after a short illness . Ian filled any room , and was a political giant . His legacy of celebrating the diversity of our city and fighting for the vulnerable will not be forgotten . Take a mere glance at the roll call of previous MPs who have served Wolverhampton North East , and you soon realise that there are big shoes to fill . Jennie Lee , who when first elected was too young to vote , was instrumental in establishing the Open University . Ken Purchase , who served for 18 years , was a deeply respected constituency MP . Ken played a pivotal role in the campaign to save our beloved Wolverhampton Wanderers football club . Losing our club would have been devastating for the local community , not only in economic terms but in terms of our identity , as a city that truly loves our football club . A returning Member , my hon . Friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , was a Minister in the last Labour Government , and I know that she will serve tirelessly in this Government . The long and rich history of my constituency is a fascinating story of how a small village established in 985 AD grew into the wonderful , diverse city it is today . It is a history carved out of wars , plagues , and economic booms and busts ; a story of determined perseverance , progress and community cohesion . These values are a testament to what makes any place great : its people . The dawn of the industrial revolution brought factories and canals to Wolverhampton and Willenhall . We were ideally located to become one of the major regions involved in coal and metal production , especially the production of locks , keys and enamelware . We saw growth in manufacturing , with companies such as Guy Motors , Goodyears , and the Chubb and Yale lock makers . We were at the heart of the “ workshop of the world ” . If it was mechanical , we built it . My journey to stand here today started with my parents migrating from Fiji as young adults . I was born and raised on a council estate , Ashmore Park , watching my father work all hours in demanding jobs . Times were tough back then , but they should not be that tough today . I encountered such challenges directly when I was honoured to serve as mayoress of Wolverhampton as we emerged from covid restrictions . I met extraordinary community groups and many remarkable people , including the first official freewoman of the city , Lisa Potts . Lisa protected her students at a primary school nursery from being attacked by an armed intruder . Selflessly , she placed herself between young students and the attacker , suffering horrific , life - changing injuries in the process . A George Medal recipient , Lisa remains in close contact with many of the students almost 30 years after that horrific day . With her humility , courage and compassion , she is the very definition of a hero . Wolverhampton and Willenhall take great pride in showing our gratitude to those serving in the British armed forces , and to veterans . We have extraordinary veteran community groups and volunteers , such as Anne Partridge , a regimental sergeant - major , from the Staffordshire Regiment Association , a true leader known for getting things done . I was privileged to be part of the unveiling of the magnificent Saragarhi monument , commemorating the brave last stand of 21 Sikh soldiers from the British 36th Sikhs regiment and one Muslim cook who valiantly fought for the British Army . Unity is strength , and we see a wonderful example of that when the Guru Nanak gurdwara and St Thomas ’ church work together for Wednesfield in Bloom ; they have amassed several gold awards . I saw at first hand the struggles that families face every day in my former role as a deputy headteacher . I could not believe the normalisation of hardship . Schools have become daily support hubs for families who are desperate in so many ways , facing challenges that should be consigned to the dustbin of history . It is these experiences that have inspired me to stand and fight for better . I want every child to be able to take a seat at any table , regardless of their background . This Labour Government will break down barriers to opportunity , with free breakfast clubs in all primary schools , a reformed secondary curriculum that values creative subjects , a focus on the skills needed by the future workforce , and a children ’s wellbeing Bill , so that children are safe , healthy , happy and treated fairly . Considering the high levels of deprivation in the schools where I worked , I can not speak highly enough of the dedicated staff , incredible students and supportive parents . I have a message for my students : I miss you , and I am proud of you . Remember to find what you love , and go for it with everything you have . Finally , my humble thanks to the electorate of Wolverhampton North East , who put their trust in me . To those who did not vote for me , please know that I am here to serve you as well . The damage done will not be fixed overnight , but the work has started . I will serve all constituents to bring you the change you deserve . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair , although it feels a bit weird to welcome anyone here , given that I have been here for about two minutes . I follow on from the excellent contributions made by my hon . Friends the Members for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , and for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) among others . I praise in particular my hon . Friend for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , both because he gave an excellent speech and because his mum is one of my constituents . As I start this new job , I have been thinking a lot about my family ; I was doing so while preparing my remarks today . I was thinking in particular of my grandpa , who was a coalminer in the coalfields of Lanarkshire , just outside Glasgow . When I was a wee boy , he would tell me of the conditions that he worked in : “ Darkness , ” he said , “ so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eyes and still not be able to see it . ” In that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandweans , as he would say . All the while he toiled , he was inhaling fumes so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . My dad , a welder , is here today — off during the Glasgow fair — along with my mum , who runs her own business , to watch me from the Gallery . My career so far has been very different from that of my parents and grandparents . For a start , they have a proper job , whereas I am now doing this for a living , but it has been different for two related reasons . The first is the Labour party — both in the sense that it has helped to provide me with a new job , and in the protections that it has delivered for working people . Health and safety legislation , delivered by Labour and built by the trade union movement , have ended the kind of conditions that my grandparents worked in . The second reason my career has been different is technology . I suspect that today in Britain there are more bitcoin miners than coalminers , and that is ultimately a good thing . Coalmining was difficult , hard , laborious work . As a kid I spent many long hours in front of my computer and , while much of that was spent playing FIFA against my wee brother Mark , some of it was more productive , because I taught myself to code . I watched YouTube videos and over weeks , months and years I learned how to build software . I developed iPhone apps that were used around the world , meaning that code written on my laptop in Glasgow could be pushed out to devices around the world in seconds and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from Los Angeles to Dubai . If it can do that , technology can reform our public services too . Technology might even help to reform this House , as we are debating today . I hope and know that high - growth , innovative businesses in my home city of Glasgow will be a key part of that . Much has been said and written about Glasgow over the years , but one thing sticks with me in particular . Anthony Bourdain was not a man known for his parliamentary language , so let us just say that he described Glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an “ antidote ” to the world , in his words , “ so unapologetically working class and attitude - free ” . I think he was right because , of all the things I love about Glasgow , it is our people and our humour that I enjoy most . If someone ever gets a wee bit too big for their boots , returning home to Glasgow will soon put an end to that — something I am sure will be increasingly useful the longer I spend in this place . Unlike many Glaswegians , my admiration even extends to some of Glasgow ’s politicians . It is customary in speeches such as this to praise our predecessors , but I know that for some that will be done through slightly gritted teeth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . In my case , I talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . Stewart McDonald served the people of Glasgow South diligently and built an enviable reputation in this place . He was particularly respected for his long - standing support for the people of Ukraine , something that saw him awarded the Ukrainian order of merit . If I leave this place having done half as much as he did for people around the world fighting for democracy , I will leave a happy man . Before Stewart , there were Labour predecessors . There was Tom Harris , who has been personally kind to me ; John Maxton , now Lord Maxton , whose son taught me modern studies in high school , believe it or not — although I will leave it up to others to decide whether he did a good or bad job of that — and of course Teddy Taylor , who is still remembered fondly by many of my constituents . I would also like to mention two other Members of this House who had a big impact on my life , both from Glasgow . The former Member for East Kilbride , Adam Ingram , grew up in the east end of Glasgow and was one of the first people I ever spoke to in the Labour party . His advice and wise counsel has been a constant source of support to me over the years , and I am incredibly grateful . The other is a southsider , my friend and the former Member for Glasgow Central , Anas Sarwar . I had the great privilege of serving as the director of Anas ’s successful leadership campaign to become leader of Scottish Labour . Three and a half years ago , as we sat beginning that campaign , it was hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moments , I do not think we would have predicted this . I stand here as one of 37 Scottish Labour MPs . Having praised three Glaswegians , I will do something unusual for a Glasgow MP and praise someone from Edinburgh . My right hon . Friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) has been a friend of mine for many years , and he deserves enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole Scottish Labour MP , and for being someone who recognised that the Labour party had to change if it was to earn people ’s trust once again . It gives me enormous pleasure and pride to see him in his rightful place as the Secretary of State for Scotland . That brief interlude aside , we return to Scotland ’s real capital city . I am privileged to represent Glasgow ’s southside , a place that has had something of a renaissance in recent years , boasting the trendy tenements of Shawlands , the tree - lined avenues of Newlands and the beautiful conservation village of Carmunnock , among others . My constituency contains many of Glasgow ’s beautiful parks , of which Linn Park , Queen ’s Park and Pollok Country Park are just a few . In the latter , hon . Members will find the Burrell collection , which was awarded the Art Fund ’s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . Like many parts of the city , however , we are not without difficulties . Castlemilk is an area with enormous spirit and the kindest people anyone will ever meet , but it also remains an area with challenges . Even today , the simple act of getting a supermarket in Castlemilk has proven difficult , something I hope to change as local MP . What is true of all my constituency is that it is an outward - looking , diverse and welcoming place . The Scots - Asian community in particular have contributed enormously to Glasgow ’s character , and I am very proud to represent them here in Parliament . Immigration has made my constituency richer , and it makes our country richer , too . The southside of Glasgow is also a passionately pro - European place . Although Brexit was settled in the previous Parliament , I intend to support the Government ’s moves to repair our relationship with Europe . My first duty is to my constituency and my country — being the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South is the only job that I will do , so long as the people of Glasgow South wish for me to continue — but I also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many millions of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toiling away in darkness , just as my grandpa did all those years ago . I hope that none of us in this House forgets the millions — indeed , billions — of people around the world who are not as lucky as us , including those facing persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bound by modern slavery . I am one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but I will never forget the people who put me here and the people who do not have a voice . Delivering for them will be how I judge my success . It is an absolute honour to follow the hon . Member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) . He spoke passionately about his constituency , and his love for his constituents was clear for all to hear . It is also an honour to follow maiden speeches from the hon . Members for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) and for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) . Each is , in their own way , an act to follow . I thank the people of Hazel Grove constituency for placing their trust in me . That trust is a profound responsibility , and I am committed to repaying it through hard work , integrity and service to my community . I acknowledge the work of my predecessor William Wragg , who served in Parliament from 2015 until he stood down at the last election . He stood up to those in power when he felt that it was needed , and he spoke openly about poor mental health in a way that I am sure will have helped to break down stigma . On behalf of all residents of Hazel Grove , I wish him all the best for the future . I accept that I may be a little biased , but Hazel Grove is quite clearly the finest constituency in the land . It ranges from central Stockport out to the edge of the Peak district , taking in the communities of Bredbury , Bosden Farm , Compstall , Great Moor , Hawk Green , Heaviley , High Lane , Little Moor , Marple , Marple Bridge , Mellor , Mill Brow , Norbury , Offerton , Romiley , Strines , Woodley , and some , but not all , of Hazel Grove itself . Whether the peaceful havens of our green spaces or the proud reminders of our industrial heritage , Hazel Grove has it all . We have the Peak forest , the Macclesfield canals , which have one of the steepest lock flights in the country , and our beautiful rivers : the Goyt , the Mersey and the Tame . It is no wonder so many people want to call our area home . Our rivers would be even more beautiful if the water company were not pumping quite so much sewage into them . We very much look forward to the Government implementing their plans to clean up that scandal . However , it is the people who really make our community . Starting Point social enterprise in Woodley is tackling digital exclusion by giving some of my more mature constituents the confidence to get online , the Cherry Tree Project in Romiley empowers young people to live their best lives , and NK Theatre Arts works with children and adults of all abilities across the borough , using creativity and the performing arts to transform lives . Local people have many of the answers that we seek on how to fix the problems we face as a country . My job , and the job of this House , is to empower them , not tell them what is good for them . I am a liberal and a Liberal Democrat . We exist to build and safeguard a fair , free and open society in which we balance the fundamental values of liberty , equality and community , and in which no one shall be enslaved by poverty , ignorance or conformity . I joined the Lib Dems and got involved in politics because shouting at the television was not bringing about the changes that we need . My constituents have been very clear with me that their top priority is our local health service . They should not have a hospital that is literally falling down , they should not have to wait months or years for treatment , and they should not have to struggle to care for their loved ones . The phenomenal staff at Stepping Hill hospital should not have to wade through flooded corridors to get to their patients because yet another pipe has burst , as it did last weekend . Stepping Hill hospital must get the repairs it needs , and we need a new , additional hospital in the town centre so that local people can get the health and social care services they deserve . I will not rest until they do . I could not possibly make my first speech in this House without mentioning the last Liberal Democrat to represent my community , Andrew Stunell . Andrew was the MP for Hazel Grove from 1997 to 2015 , and he was that rare kind of politician who gave politics a good name . He was an MP who set the standard to which all who came after him are rightly held — he was interested in doing something , not just being something . He put his constituents first and brought about changes in the law , both as a Minister and as a Back Bencher . Andrew made things better for the whole country : as a Minister , he delivered the Localism Act 2011 , but as a Back Bencher he came top of the private Member ’s Bill ballot in 2003 , resulting in the Sustainable and Secure Buildings Bill becoming an Act of Parliament in 2004 . More than all that , he was one of the warmest , kindest people I have ever met . He was the kind of person you want on your team : hard - working , honest and kind . He helped me work out what it was to make a difference in public life . The people of Hazel Grove , the whole Lib Dem family , and I will miss him and his guidance hugely . I am the first woman to be elected as the MP for Hazel Grove , and I take that responsibility really seriously . I am especially delighted to be a Member of the largest group of Liberal Democrats ever elected to this House : there are 73 of us , if we include the right honourable Jennie . I went to a comprehensive school , and was the first member of my family to go to university . Before deciding that shouting at the telly was not bringing about the changes that I wanted to see in the world and that standing for elected office was the way to be part of that change , I worked in a business as a director of client relations — my clients were big pension funds , charities and foundations . I was then the chief exec of a charity , educating women and girls in the developing world . For the past eight years , I have also been lucky enough to represent some of my constituents as an elected councillor for Bredbury Green and Romiley on Stockport council , a role I have loved . I am one of a rather large number of colleagues who come to this House knowing at first hand the value of local government , and the desperate need for it to be funded properly . I turn to the substance of today ’s debate , which is standards and modernisation . The main thrust of what we have heard from the Government and the Leader of the House — that any further roles should benefit an MP ’s constituents — is absolutely right . In the short term , we should of course stop MPs from taking on roles as paid parliamentary advisers , strategists or consultants . In the longer term , daylight is often the best disinfectant , so I ask the Leader of the House to consider whether publishing any employment contracts for outside arrangements — with suitable redactions — and the transparency that would bring would allow constituents to judge for themselves whether they were getting value for money from their MP . As a new MP , I am struck and more than a little bemused by some of the wonderful conventions and habits of this House . Taking it as read that colleagues are honourable is a good thing , and referring to one another as the Members for our constituencies acts as a powerful reminder of who sent us here , but I am also struck by how much modernisation is needed . We on the Lib Dem Benches look forward to supporting the Government when we agree , but I would expect us to urge , persuade , and on occasion push the Government to go further and faster to make us the most effective we can be , because our constituents deserve no less . With so many newly elected colleagues , we have a cracking opportunity to change this place for the better . It could be so much more efficient and so much more effective . Let us do that with fresh eyes before we are all too institutionalised and think that some of this stuff is normal . However , that is also going to take some courage from the new Government , because making processes and procedures less obscure so that more people understand them and making this place more efficient will mean that MPs have more power and the Government slightly less of it . Governments — especially Governments with new large majorities , I am guessing — will probably grow rather fond of that power quite quickly , so let us get cracking . Alongside modernising this place , we should of course reform our politics and our democracy more fundamentally . The House of Lords should obviously be elected , 16 and 17 - year - olds should be able to vote , and we must replace the antiquated and deeply unfair first - past - the - post system with a fair , proportionate voting system . I look forward to making the case for these changes during my time here . This election was the fourth time I have stood to represent the people of Hazel Grove as the Lib Dem candidate , and it probably takes a certain sort of stubbornness , resilience and determination to do that . It most certainly took the support of my family , and especially of my partner , Ed . I am so grateful to him . Our mischievous rescue dog Bonnie has not quite made up her mind yet about what she thinks about me working away from home rather more , but I hope to be able to convince her that winning is better than losing , as it undoubtedly is . Winning enables us to get stuff done , and there is a lot to do . It is the honour of my life to be elected to represent my phenomenal community , the people of Hazel Grove constituency . They will be at the heart of everything I do here , and I hope I do them proud . Thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the many maiden speeches of new Members I have heard today , including the hon . Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for her fine speech . Hon . Members have spoken with affection and commitment about their home constituencies . Each of them rightly places their own area above all others , and that is understandable , but I stand before you as the Member for the oldest continuous constituency to send a Member to this House . For almost 1,000 years , men and women have stood , as I stand today , proud to proclaim themselves the Member for Lincoln . I walk in the footsteps of a series of strong Labour women . Lincoln ’s first female Member of Parliament was a titan of our movement , Margaret Beckett . Grafton House , Lincoln ’s Labour club , was founded and sustained by the much - missed Leo . Margaret was succeeded by two other formidable Labour women , Gillian Merron and Karen Lee , both of whom continue to serve our movement in local and national Government . I am honoured to succeed them . I would like to pay tribute , too , to my immediate predecessor , Karl McCartney , who also loved the city . He dedicated himself particularly to improving local transport provision . He pressed forward with relief roads for the city , and I now take up that cause too . Lincoln is a beautiful , historic , young and dynamic city , but we are far from other major urban centres and , indeed , from any of my hon . Friends on these Benches . We need a public transport network that reflects that relative geographical isolation , and I hope to work with colleagues across the House to make sure that Lincoln and Lincolnshire get the transport network they need . Right hon . and hon . Members may not yet be sick of hearing me talk about the urgent necessity to upgrade the Lincoln to Newark line , one of the slowest in the country , but I assure them that they will be . All of us elected to serve our communities will of course be seeking the support that they deserve , as I also intend to in relation to the cost of living , healthcare and housing , but I also want to pause to pay tribute to the service my city has done for this country . That service snakes back even further than my predecessors . Over 1,000 years ago , in 1217 , England seemed almost lost . French forces loyal to Prince Louis had taken most of England , and even the majority of Lincoln herself . It was only our castle , led by a woman in her mid - sixties , Nicola de la Haye , the constable of Lincoln castle , who survived months of bitter siege warfare , that finally repelled the invaders at the battle of Lincoln , securing the city and saving England . Hundreds of years later , Lincoln and her workers again sprang to the defence of this country . In the chaos of the first world war , facing mechanised industrial - scale warfare of the most horrifying kind , Lincoln invented the tank . We produced one in 14 of all Royal Air Force planes at Ruston , and the working people of Lincoln delivered to this country the equipment and people needed to prevail against the odds . On these Benches , and in this movement , we never forget that . Lincoln ’s connection with the RAF has never since dimmed , and less than a decade later young men , including my grandfather , trained to fly at the RAF stations surrounding our city . To this day we are proud to continue to host RAF Waddington , one of the most important RAF bases . At this moment RAF Waddington and its brave men and women protect this country and this House , as does Sobraon barracks in uphill Lincoln . I am proud of their service , and I will be a champion for them and their families for as long as I am in this place . As for so many of my constituents , public service took me far from home , and I was surprised and honoured to be asked to return to the Foreign Office shortly after my election to this place . I know that my constituents expect me to do my duty there , as they do at Waddington and across the world . It is an honour to join the Government , but before I speak from the Front Benches on Government business , I wish to send a message to my constituents : I am first and foremost the Member for Lincoln — for the city and Bracebridge , Waddington and Skellingthorpe ; for the schools and two universities ; for the barracks and the airbase ; for the hospital , cathedral and castle ; for our copy of Magna Carta ; for the independent shops of the bail ; for Sincil Bank and the parks of Boultham and Hartsholme ; and for the Gillies , the Ermine , Birchwood and Steep Hill . This is the honour of my life , and our city on a hill will be my first and last priority for as long as you send me here . It is an honour to rise to make my first formal contribution as a Member of this House , and I start by congratulating you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on taking your seat in the Chair . I also start with a slight admission of honesty . Since arriving here , I have been nervous and anxious about making my maiden speech — we might even say that I delayed making my maiden speech for fear that my new colleagues were superb orators who would go on to make excellent speeches . I am happy to admit that that fear came to pass : there have been some superb speeches over the past couple of days . Even today , I pay tribute to my hon . Friends the Members for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , and the hon . Members for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros- Curtis ) , for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) , for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , and of course my neighbour , the hon . Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , whose great speech did justice to that town . I thank him for his kind words . He is no longer here , so I will stop the niceties there . I am in the fortunate position of having been sent to this place to represent a constituency and a people that have played a huge role in my life . My grandfather grew up in east London before moving to Essex to raise a family . It was in the 1980s , after retirement and with my grandmother Mary , that he made that all - too - familiar trip up the A12 to settle just 20 minutes outside Ipswich . My earliest and happiest childhood memories were spent falling in love with a country and a countryside that I still call home today , and a county and a people I am now humbled to represent in this place . Shock horror , Madam Deputy Speaker : I think Central Suffolk and North Ipswich is blessed with some of the most beautiful countryside in England , but it is the history of the area that makes it unique . The Anglo - Saxon King Raedwald was one of the richest and most powerful of his era . Consequently , Suffolk has become a treasure trove for archaeologists for nearly a century . My neighbour the hon . Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) can boast of Sutton Hoo , but on my far - eastern border , just last year a 1,400 - year - old pre - Christian temple was discovered . Experts can trace back human activity in the area almost 6,000 years . I am fortunate to have the beautiful market town of Framlingham in my patch . It is home to Framlingham castle , a former seat of the famous Howard family , and St Michael ’s church , which contains the tombs of Tudor royalty and nobility , and which I love to take my two children to see . I also have Helmingham hall in my constituency , which has unbelievably hosted both Queen Elizabeth I and Queen Elizabeth II . It is unsurprising , given our ancient , lush and beautiful landscape , that we have a rich history of producing great artists who are inspired by those surroundings . Thomas Gainsborough , John Constable , Benjamin Britten and even Brian Eno and Ed Sheeran , to name a few , are all products of our wonderful county in some way or another . I am afraid to say that this child of Suffolk was not blessed with the same artistic talent . The other great contribution that I have always felt that Suffolk makes to our country is in food and drink . I have been told by my wife that it is certainly a domain in which I have more expertise and experience . Central Suffolk and North Ipswich is home to Aspall cider , manufactured for almost 300 years from apple trees in the grounds of Aspall hall . It is now one of the most recognisable brands in the global drinks market , exporting products to customers around the world . It is a great example of global success by a home - grown British business . We are great exporters of not only cider but sausages , spuds , chocolate and condiments . It is not uncommon to find Suffolk produce in shops across the country . It is for that reason that I have in the past , and will now in this place , support initiatives like that of my hon . Friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) that give consumers in this country the opportunity to buy produce from producers in this country . The Suffolk farming and agricultural community are such an important part of our local society , and they are also emblematic of our local culture and identity , with their no - nonsense attitude to hard work , love for family and community , complete and utter ambivalence to the weather , and deep affection for our natural environment . I am sure that all Members have their bias , but I am of the firm belief that the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich are the finest our country has to offer . While I hope to be a voice primarily for the people of Suffolk and Ipswich , I hope to use my time in this place to speak up for another cause . In a previous life , before entering this place , I worked under my right hon . Friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) at the Centre for Social Justice , and then as an adviser in the Department for Education . In that time , I realised that the Conservative party and conservativism have a proud story to tell on the critical issue of helping those who need help — on offering the most vulnerable in our society not just a handout but a leg up , and on standing up for what is just and fair in society . More than anything , they are about giving people the opportunity to fulfil their potential . I count the wards of Whitton , Whitehouse and Castle Hill as part of my patch . Whitton and Whitehouse are two of the most deprived wards in our country . Castle Hill is probably one of the most unequal . By any measure , Ipswich is , like its football team , a huge success story , but large parts of it , including many families living in Whitehouse , Whitton and Castle Hill , have been left behind . The story is all too familiar : the failure to adapt in a post - industrial economy ; generations of low - wage work , if not worklessness ; the proliferation of crime ; and high levels of immigration that have caused a degree of social polarisation . For however long the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich want me to represent them , I will fight in this place to empower those people who feel left behind , those who want to get on in life , and those who want to , and can , reach their potential . At a time when faith and trust in politics is at an all - time low among those who feel locked out of our economy and our society , there is no more pressing cause than ensuring that Britain works for everyone . Today , we are debating the merits of allowing MPs to have a second job . Time and again on the doorstep during the election , and across dining tables for many years , I have heard from people — rich and poor , young and old , left and right — that they have lost faith in politicians doing the right thing . Believe it or not , the NHS , immigration , jobs , incomes and access to homes were all hugely important to the voters at this general election , but the most important thing to the people across my constituency — from Whitehouse to Whitton , Kesgrave to Claydon and Ringshall to Rendham — whether they voted for me or not , was restoring a sense of moral probity and public spiritedness to our political system . As we embark on this debate and others in this place , let us keep that in mind . Before I finish , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Dan Poulter . He was as dedicated a servant to the people of Suffolk and Ipswich as ever there was , both an MP and in his second job as a consultant doctor . He used his invaluable NHS experience when he was a junior Minister in the Department of Health , and when he was on the draft Bill Committee reviewing the Mental Health Act 1983 for the first time in 40 years . We felt the benefits of his healthcare expertise in Suffolk when he managed to save Hertismere hospital , which was previously in my constituency and is now in neighbouring Waveney Valley , and when he lobbied the Government for a new accident and emergency wing for Ipswich general hospital . As many people know , Dr Dan arrived in this House as a Member of my party and left as a Member of another , but I do not feel any ill will , for another political hero of mine , Winston Churchill , performed a similar journey over 120 years ago . I do not mind saying it here , Madam Deputy Speaker : I , too , hope one day to cross the Floor . Before I give my Whips a heart attack , I should add : not to swap political allegiances , but as part of a Conservative party elected back into government , taking our place on the Government Benches . That was a Whip - issued line . In the meantime , though , I would like to thank my wife and my two little boys , Leo and Jasper , who I am sure are watching on BBC Parliament right now . I also thank the Doorkeepers and the Clerks . I also want to thank my mother , who has been a real trouper to sit through a nearly 3.5 - hour debate . She looks brighter now than she did when I put her in a polling station as a teller . As I was saying , I look forward to working with Members from across the House in the pursuit of delivering for the people of this great nation .