I commend my hon . Friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for securing this important debate . I understand more than most the issues with property service charges , because I am a leaseholder where I live in Hoddesdon . A quarter of my constituents live in flats or maisonettes , and 25 % of property transactions in Broxbourne last year involved leasehold properties , but shockingly , as we have heard , it is hard to find any leaseholder who has a good word to say about their landlord or their service charge . Landlords and solicitors do not provide enough information to new residents , and far too often prospective residents are not properly informed before they move in about how much service charges have increased in previous years . They are then hit with huge rises down the line . It is also unclear where the money is going . A resident in Waltham Cross told me : “ The service charge has skyrocketed from around £ 800 to £ 6,000 for each leaseholder , yet living conditions remain extremely dire . Residents here face ongoing issues including trespassers , mould , broken security doors , mice infestations and squatters . Our building also has several defects , including weak floors , fire safety issues , and ongoing leakages . At one point my flat became uninhabitable after a severe leak that took months to resolve ” . I hear these stories again and again from constituents who come to me as the contact of last resort after months and sometimes years of neglect to their property . In that case I met the management company involved , RMG , earlier this year , but nothing has changed . Whether it is RMG , FirstPort , Bamptons , EN8 Homes or Warwick Estates , leaseholders deserve better from their landlords and management companies , who focus purely on collecting ever higher charges for worse services . However , by far the worst treatment of leaseholders in my constituency has been at the hands of — I hope the Minister is listening to this point — Labour - run Enfield council . I was first contacted by residents on the Whitefield estate in May last year , and what I heard left me outraged . Completely out of the blue , Enfield council was demanding up to £ 50,000 from each leaseholder for “ urgent ” repairs . Roofs that had never had a leak were earmarked to be replaced , and windows would be fixed , even though they had been used for years without issue . Understandably , my residents immediately asked , “ What about my service charge ? ” Well , as the Leasehold Advisory Service says , many landlords collect money out of the service charge for a sinking fund , to help cover the cost of exactly these kinds of major works . But not Enfield council . No , it expects my constituents to stump up all the cash , even after raising the service charge that year and , as far as the residents are concerned , having not spent a single penny on the estate in decades . The Whitefield estate tenants association , and in particular leaseholder Nicky McCabe , have worked incredibly hard to bring the community together in response to this issue . They simply demanded straightforward answers to straightforward questions , but they were met with confusing statements from Enfield council representatives , who found it far too easy to say , “ That ’s not my job . ” I attended the meeting . There were a number of directors from Enfield council there , all of whom earn significant sums of money , and they could not answer basic questions from my constituents about how much they would have to pay , and what was going to change on the estate . The communication was shocking . My constituents ’ fight is still ongoing , and they have my full support .