It has been a real privilege to share the debate with so maiden speeches this afternoon — something I did not expect . My hon . Friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) is not in her place just now , but I am sure her father would have been proud of her , as will her husband . I have a fantastic charity in my constituency called Dads Rock , which supports dads and gives them confidence . It sounds like her husband is a dad who rocks . It has been remarkable that Margaret Thatcher has been invoked quite a few times . It is quite unusual for her name to be mentioned so many times in my presence . I grew up in Fife during the 1980s , and I am sure my hon . Friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) would agree that the impact that she had there is still felt today . People still feel the impact of the rapid deindustrialisation of proud communities . I am sure that my hon . Friend has casework still about the impact of that . It was emotional yesterday to hear the Chancellor deliver her fantastic speech . I am still a little hoarse today from all the emotion . This is the Budget our country needs , and the IMF agrees , which is incredible . It was great news for Labour MPs to wake up to this morning — I expect colleagues from other parties were less happy . The chances of my being elected were always slim , but I promised those I met on the campaign trail that Labour would get our country back on track . Yesterday ’s Budget is proof that we are serious about that . We have spent the weeks since the election clearing up the mess which was left by others , but the Budget sets down the foundation for what we want to do next . It is transformative Budget . I can not believe we are achieving so much in our first Budget , but it is only the start of a real change for our country . The Budget will work for both the working people who call Edinburgh South West home , but also the young and retired people who deserve well - funded public services . The measures that we set out yesterday are a re - set , establishing the tone for the remainder of this Parliament and for the coming decade , not just five years . Gone are the irresponsible commitments , without plans to follow through , that we have been dealing with since the election . It feels like the grown - ups are now running the country . We have a Budget that provides the stability to encourage growth and investment in our nation ’s infrastructure and our public services . After reading through the details of the Budget , it was clear that when my colleague Anas Sarwar said , “ Read my lips : no austerity under Labour ” he meant it . The Chancellor has delivered . The Budget will deliver for the people of Scotland , with a record - breaking £ 47.7 billion for the Scottish Government ’s budget in 2025 - 26 . That has the potential to be entirely life changing not just for my constituents , but for people right across Scotland . The Chancellor yesterday proved that when Labour wins , Scotland wins , with the measures announced resulting in more investment per head of population in Scotland than in the rest of the UK . The Scotland Office is now equipped with a budget for trade missions around the world , selling brand Scotland and bringing in new investment and custom to countless Scottish businesses . Some 200,000 of the lowest - paid Scots will also feel the benefit in their payslips . We will close the age banding on the living wage , which has always been unacceptable . The Budget has protected working Scots and has laid the foundations for a new era of investment and growth in Scotland , raising money from those with the broadest shoulders . With all that in mind , I find it rather embarrassing that SNP Members talk with a straight face about this being an austerity Budget . It is almost as if they wrote their speech before they heard the Budget . It is quite curious . I can only guess — as others have commented , none of them are here today — that they are busy rewriting their lines and thinking about how they are going to respond . But I think a lot of people in Scotland will find it unacceptable that no SNP Members are here today to engage in this debate . Is it not time , when the UK Labour Government have given the Scottish Government their largest ever funding settlement , that the SNP begins to take responsibility for its own mismanagement of Scotland ’s finances ? In government , the SNP has wasted millions on pet projects rather than the services on which so many Scots rely . We have had ferries with painted windows . As I speak , a hospital in Edinburgh is being closed as an emergency action because of a lack of maintenance . This is not a small hospital . The Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion caters for 1,400 out - patients per week and it has been closed almost overnight . It is a planned process , but one that has been forced . It is absolutely incredible and shameful . In parallel with that , local authorities have been starved of cash and our towns and cities have found their public services decimated . On Tuesday , I met third sector groups in my constituency who were preparing to make staff redundant due the pressures of SNP cuts to social care . At 10 past 12 yesterday , just as the Chancellor was getting ready to speak , I received a WhatsApp message from a GP serving one of the most deprived parts of my constituency . She described the cuts to social care services in Edinburgh as catastrophic and devastating . At quarter past 11 last night , I received an email from a GP making exactly the same points . The SNP will blame Westminster or howl austerity , but in reality that is mince — that is a Scottish phrase , Madam Deputy Speaker . The Scottish Government ’s own decisions are to blame for “ much of the pressure ” facing Scotland ’s finances . That is not just my view , but the considered view of the official economic forecaster in Scotland . The Budget presents the Scottish Government with a choice . They can use the record funding to own the problems that they created and get our public services back on track , including the social care services I talked about . The only alternative to that is handing over power to Anas Sarwar in Scotland , because more guddle can not be an option but I fear that that is what we are going to get . If the SNP is not up for that challenge , Scottish Labour is ready to step in . My constituents know more than most the impact of the SNP ’s cuts and mismanagement , because Edinburgh — Scotland ’s capital — has the worst - funded local authority in Scotland . With this additional funding , it is high time that the Scottish Government do the right thing and stop starving our council of the resources it needs . Councillor Cammy Day , Edinburgh ’s council leader , made that demand yesterday . Let us hope that the funding will be a lifeline to social care providers . In 2026 , Scottish voters will have the opportunity to elect a Scottish Labour Government that will work hand in hand with this UK Labour Government to continue to deliver for the people of Scotland . However , until then , we Scottish Labour MPs , and our colleagues at Holyrood and in council chambers , will hold the Scottish Government to account for how they choose to spend the additional funding . After all , I think we can all agree that the Scottish Government have not just needed more cash ; they have needed to get better at spending it . We saw yesterday what a Labour Chancellor can do to turn around the lives of working people , even in the face of a shocking legacy handed to us by the Conservatives . This Government have given the Scottish Government all the financial tools they need to succeed . Just imagine how truly transformative it would be if we had a Scottish Labour Finance Secretary working in partnership with a Labour Chancellor here in London . That is our goal .