I hugely respect the hon . Gentleman . I know he is a bruiser , but I had been looking forward to his question . I thought he would celebrate the 13,000 apprentices in Chesterfield since May 2010 , the 11,270 apprentices at levels 2 and 3 , or the £ 19.5 million investment in Chesterfield College . If I were him , I would be urging his party to stop its plan to destroy the apprenticeship levy , which would halve the number of apprenticeship starts overall . It would be back to square one . As always , Labour Front Benchers are obsessed with quantity over quality . We have transformed the quality of apprenticeships . Seventy per cent of occupations are covered by over 680 apprenticeship standards . There has been a 6 % increase since this time last year in the number of under-19 starts , and overall starts are up by 3 % over the same period . The crucial thing is achievement , which is up by 22 % . Female STEM starts are up by 7.5 % , starts by people with disabilities are up by 6.3 % , and starts by people from ethnic minorities are up to 15.4 % of starts , compared with 10.6 % in 2010 . Not only are we focusing on quality over quantity ; we are improving the number of starts and achievements too . I was pleased to visit Loughborough not so long ago with my hon . Friend . She is passionate about FE and skills . I know Homefield College well ; it is a brilliant college and I am glad it was recently allocated £ 95,000 for capital spend . We have the £ 80 million supported internship scheme for those with special educational needs ; an FE bursary scheme for special needs teachers ; specialist National Careers Service advice for young people ; and the SEND code of practice to prepare young people for adulthood . We are doing everything possible to support FE for those with special educational needs , to ensure that they get on the ladder of opportunity . I thank my right hon . and learned Friend for his question . Arthur Balfour was a great man and identified the need for a homeland for British Jews . That is why antisemites do not like him and are slashing his picture . I and the Secretary of State are spending a lot of time with Jewish student groups . I have been to Leeds University to spend time with Jewish students , because the chaplain there was attacked , and we are working with Universities UK . We have announced a £ 7 million package to give to Jewish student groups , including the University Jewish Chaplaincy , to try to stop antisemitism on campus . We are also developing a quality seal that we will ask universities to adopt , so that they deal properly with antisemitic incidents . Last week , I and the Secretary of State had a meeting with the Office for Students , to make clear to the regulator that antisemitism across our universities is not acceptable .