This Government are committed to giving every child in this country a first - class education and every opportunity to make the most of their abilities . Although there is a small number of children who , for good reasons , need to be educated elsewhere , we want all children to be at school every day . That is key for their life chances . For children who are home educated — a right that parents have , and we do not question that most do a very good job — it is vital that we know that the education they are provided with is suitable and that the children are safe . As my right hon . Friend the Schools Minister said , the motion conflates two separate things : the issue of persistent absence , which is when pupils miss 10 % or more of their lessons , and the topic of home education for those who are not in school . To take persistent absence first , the year the Government came to power , persistent absence was at 16.3 % . We got that down to 10.5 % in 2015 - 16 , and it averaged 10.9 % in the five years prior to the pandemic . It was during the pandemic that it rose significantly again to 22.5 % . The Government are taking wide - ranging action to tackle the matter . We have already established 14 attendance hubs across 800 schools , reaching 400,000 pupils . This term , we are more than doubling the number of hubs so that nearly 2,000 schools will be supported . We are rolling out an attendance mentor pilot that we had in five areas to a further 10 areas , and that programme will reach around 10,000 children . We have deployed 10 expert attendance advisers to support local authorities and school trusts . We have developed a data tool that helps schools to understand the local trends and target their support , and we have strengthened our guidance to local authorities . For the first time , schools are expected to have a member of the senior leadership team responsible for attendance . Evidence suggests that the strategy is working . There were 380,000 fewer persistently absent pupils in the past academic year , and in the last academic term overall absence was down to 6.8 % , from 7.5 % in the autumn term the year before . That is all backed by a national communications campaign to remind parents that “ moments matter , attendance counts ” . The campaign aims to encourage parents to realise that their child should attend school if they have a mild cough or cold and no fever or vomiting , and that mild anxiety can be made worse by a prolonged period of absence . The campaign has been running across social media and the radio . We are grateful to Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , for his letter reassuring school leaders that children should generally attend school if they have mild respiratory illnesses , because it is good for their wellbeing and a host of other things . Of course , mental health challenges underpin some of the absence — something raised by the hon . Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , among others . That is why we have been rolling out mental health support teams , which now cover 44 % of pupils in schools and colleges and will cover 50 % of those pupils by March 2025 . We are offering all state schools and colleges a grant to train a senior mental health lead , and we are pleased that 14,400 schools and colleges have already taken that up , covering seven schools in 10 for all state secondary schools . There is then the related but separate issue of a register for those who are home educated . I should declare that I served on the Education Committee when my right hon . Friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) chaired it , and we produced a report that recommended a register for those not in school . That remains a recommendation of the Education Committee . That is the register that was in the Schools Bill referred to in the motion and for which we remain committed to legislating . My hon . Friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) has been doing great work to champion this issue , and I look forward to the outcome of the Second Reading of her Children Not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill on 15 March . Various points were raised in this debate and I will try and cover as many as possible . The hon . Members for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) and for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) raised issues about the SEND system . Our SEND and AP improvement plan is designed to address the issues that they raised about children being placed in suitable provision and in a timely manner . We should not have children out of school for prolonged periods because they are unable to get their needs met . My right hon . Friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who I think is currently at her Westminster Hall debate , has introduced an important Bill , the School Attendance ( Duties of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill , and I look forward to seeing its progress through the House . The hon . Member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) raised the topic of breakfast clubs , which we are funding in 2,700 schools . Many schools already had a breakfast club , of course , and have had for some time , but we are funding 2,700 . My hon . Friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) raised the issue of fixed penalty notices . Our guidance is clear that there should be a “ support first ” approach , but penalties are there to prevent court action from taking place . I should say that 89 % of the fixed penalty notices issued are for unauthorised term - time holidays , but I am happy to pick up that discussion with him . My final point is this : I have watched the Labour party try to reinvent itself as the champion of children being in school , and many Labour Members have raised issues about the pandemic , which is where many of the problems stem from . However , I remember their actions during that pandemic . I remember how long it took them to say that schools were safe . I remember the then Prime Minister standing here every week asking the Leader of the Opposition to say that schools were safe , and him not doing so . I remember that when one of Labour ’s union allies produced a statement saying that teachers should not be teaching a full timetable nor routinely marking work during that period , Labour said nothing to challenge it . When that same union teamed up with other unions to produce a 200 - point list of things they wanted to see before schools returned , the Labour party said nothing to challenge them . What was Labour ’s big idea during the pandemic ? To go against the vaccination advice of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation , which was that we should vaccinate by age , and instead vaccinate teachers — no other profession , just teachers — whatever their age . Why ? Because the unions wanted that to happen . In addition to the motion conflating two separate things , and in addition to this problem being worse in Labour - run Wales , like all problems are , we will not allow the Labour party to reinvent the history of their behaviour under this Leader of the Opposition . They can not blame the last Leader of the Opposition for that ; it was under this Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learned Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) . It was this Government who did all they could to get children back to school during the pandemic , and it is this Government who are doing all they can to get children back to school now . Question put .