With permission , I would like to make a statement about the Government ’s support for film making in the UK . Film is one of the great British success stories of the last 30 years . Ever since Gordon Brown created the film tax credit back in 2007 , this amazing industry has created jobs and growth across the UK and flown the flag for British creativity across the world . Our Government have huge ambition for the film sector , and today we are introducing secondary legislation that will put rocket boosters under this growing industry and unlock the potential of our incredible independent film sector . The UK has some special advantages that give us a natural competitive edge . Thanks to the creativity and imagination of our authors , playwrights and publishers , we have some of the best stories to tell and take to the screen , helped by some of the best story tellers in the world — the directors , scriptwriters and cinematographers — and against some of the most incredible backdrops , from the Welsh valleys to the north - east coastline , as well as acting talent that is second to none and that breathes life into those stories . Our film industry is one of our great economic and cultural success stories . It is worth £ 1.36 billion and employs more than 195,000 people , and it has created true icons such as James Bond , Harry Potter and my personal favourite , Paddington Bear . Our Government have three aims for our film industry . First , we want to attract the investment for UK film makers to make the best films in the world . Secondly , we want UK audiences to see films that reflect their lives and their communities . That means telling a wide diversity of British stories that draws on the rich cultural inheritance in every region and nation . Thirdly , we want the UK to be the best place in the world to make films , because we have the right ingredients : the investment , the talent , the technical skills , the sound stages , the creative imagination , and the right fiscal and regulatory environment . That is why this Government will do everything in our power to ensure that the fiscal and regulatory environment matches the ambition of film makers and studios around the world . We want them to invest in great British film making . However , the key to maintaining that advantage is an internationally competitive tax regime , and I think that is beyond party politics . As Members will know , tax incentives for film were first introduced by the last Labour Government in 2007 , and the previous Conservative Government followed suit with the announcement of a planned UK independent film tax credit in the last spring Budget . We have heard loud and clear the industry ’s concerns that any further delays to introducing this secondary legislation , even to the end of the month , may mean that investments in UK independent films are lost . So I am glad to announce that we have today laid the necessary statutory instrument , under the negative process , for the independent film tax credit to take effect . It means that eligible films with a budget of up to £ 23.5 million can claim enhanced audiovisual expenditure credit at a rate of 53 % on their qualifying expenditure up to £ 15 million . That is higher than the standard 34 % rate for other films . The regulations set out the eligibility criteria for film production companies , who can apply from 30 October . This Government do not underestimate how important this tax credit is . Big blockbuster movies are an important part of the mix , but independent films are every bit as important , both for the British talent that they allow to shine and for the untold stories that they bring into the spotlight . Too often , people do not see themselves and their community reflected in the stories we tell ourselves about ourselves as a nation , and this Government are determined that will change . Later today , the 68th London film festival will open with the world premiere of “ Blitz ” , written , directed and produced by one of our most successful British directors , Steve McQueen . Set in England during world war two , it is an example of exactly what film can do . It brings together top talent on screen and off , and it showcases the nation ’s history through storytelling and highlights on screen our beautiful country , from London ’s east end to Hull ’s old town . Our independent sector has produced films such as “ Pride ” , “ The King ’s Speech ” and “ Bend It Like Beckham ” , which show our heritage , our communities and our culture to the world and act as a springboard from the grassroots for world - class UK talent on screen and behind the scenes . While major film production has flourished , smaller - budget independent films have not received sufficient support over the past decade . They face multiple challenges , including rising production costs , crew shortages and declining revenues , which have hampered the growth of this vital sector . While too much of our creative industries has traditionally been concentrated in just one part of our country , independent film thrives everywhere , given the chance . This uplift will not only boost creativity but create jobs , growth and investment in every nation and region . Through that , we will help the independent film sector to reach its full potential . While the uplift has been designed to support and target British independent film makers , I am glad to say that it is also open to qualifying official co - productions , because film and television co - production is a key way in which the UK increases its cultural ties and collaboration with Europe and the rest of the world . This Government will go further still to support this critical industry . The skills shortage that has been ignored for too long acts as a break on the ambitions of this incredible sector . That is why this Government launched Skills England to bring about the skills we need for a decade of national renewal of our communities , business and country . We will focus apprenticeships once more on young people to set them up to succeed and to help fill the 25,000 vacancies in the creative sector . The Secretary of State for Education is overhauling the apprenticeship levy to provide better career opportunities for young people , building on the success of existing high - quality apprenticeships in the creative industries , and we are working closely with Skills England to ensure that the new flexibilities announced by the Prime Minister last month offer shorter apprenticeships and an improved offer for a creative skills pathway for young people embarking on careers in this sector . Every child should have the chance to live a richer , larger life and to consider a career in the arts . In addition , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government is keeping the Government ’s mission to deliver economic growth at front of mind when making decisions about planning applications . I am pleased to announce to the House that yesterday MHCLG recovered an application for planning permission for Marlow film studios in Buckinghamshire . The merits of that application will now be reviewed by its Ministers in detail before they reach a decision . Finally , next week the Government will host the international investment summit , where industry leaders , investors and businesses from across the world will come together to put the UK back at the global table and to kick - start a decade of economic renewal . As a critical part of that , our creative industries will be at the summit ’s heart . This Government are committed to ensuring that the UK is a first - choice destination for film production . We are backing up those words with actions today . Britain is open for business , and creativity is back at its heart . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the hon . Lady for her warm words of welcome at the beginning . I think that is perhaps the beginning and end of the consensus that we might be able to reach today . If I may , I will highlight a few areas where we are in agreement . First , I think we are in agreement that today ’s announcement is a thoroughly good thing for the British film industry . Secondly , I think we are in agreement that a number of the initiatives that this Government are taking forward — including the football Bill that she referenced and various other issues relating to the competitiveness of our creative industries on the global stage — are welcome and should receive cross - party support . The hon . Lady mentioned the fact that the Conservative Government brought in this independent film tax credit at the last Budget . If that were true , we would not be needing to legislate today . The truth is that the Conservative Government did what the Conservative Government did for 14 years : they talked a good game and then did absolutely nothing to deliver for the people of this country . She says that we voted against film tax credits , but the truth , as she well knows , is that we did not vote against them . They were our idea and our initiative in 2007 . In fact , it was her party that opposed them in the first place . If they had had their way in 2007 , our British film industry would not be where it is today , which is rivalling Hollywood as one of the best film industries in the world . She knows full well that we supported every one of the measures that , after years of opposing them — they had to be dragged kicking and screaming by the film industry — the Conservatives belatedly came to support . She also knows that we voted against successive Conservative Finance Bills because , as we are discovering now that we have had a chance to open the books , there was no money attached to any of the measures . It was a hoax and a con trick practised on the British people . I have a great deal of respect for the hon . Lady , and I am grateful to her not just for her welcome today and her warm words but for the support that she and others on the Opposition Benches have given me and the team to take up the mantle . But if I had left a sector with 25,000 vacancies that it could not fill , a legacy of creativity being erased from our communities and our classrooms and , most of all , a £ 22 billion economic black hole that working - class people are paying the price for up and down the country — all of that — and then had such a resounding rejection from the electorate only a few months ago , I would be speaking with a little bit more humility from the Dispatch Box .