I congratulate all Members who have made their maiden speeches today , including the hon . Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , who paid a moving tribute at the end of his speech . I thank staff across the parliamentary estate for diligently and patiently looking after new Members in these first few days . It is an honour to be called to make my maiden speech , which I do proudly as the Member of Parliament for my hometown of Hartlepool . To represent the place where I grew up , where I met my wife Pamela and where we are raising our young family holds a special kind of responsibility for me . The challenges that Hartlepool people face are personal , because they are challenges that I share . When one of our local businesses closes due to spiralling costs , there is a good chance that I have visited it in better times . When a local play area is the victim of arson , my children are among those devastated at the loss of a place they enjoyed , and when someone tells me that they are living in pain because they can not see an NHS dentist in a town that has been described as a dental desert , I know how they feel , because I can not get one either . It is these experiences that drove me to serve my home - town , and it is Hartlepool people who have given me that opportunity . It is now my duty to respond in kind by delivering for them the opportunities that they have been denied for far too long . That is why I welcome this King ’s Speech , which prioritises growth in every part of the country , not just those already blessed with affluence . Hartlepool ’s history is one of innovation and industry . Once the bedrock of the British economy as the country ’s third - largest port , we built ships that shipped the Durham coal that powered the world . At one point in our history , Hartlepool ’s shipyards , such as William Gray and Company , launched more ships than anywhere else in the world . As a major exporter of steel , we built the bridges , the ships , the railways and the infrastructure that transformed not just our economy but economies across the globe . Such was Hartlepool ’s strategic importance that , along with only two other places on the north - east coast , it was targeted for bombardment by the German navy during the first world war . In true Hartlepool style , we were the only place to fire back , making the Heugh gun battery the UK ’s only first world war battlefield . Our industrial heritage has not left us . The Expanded Metal Company , which I have had the pleasure of visiting , provided metal mesh for buildings such as the Stephen Lawrence centre in Lewisham , the Young Vic theatre and New York ’s New Museum , among many others . Our world famous , and award - winning , Camerons brewery was built during Hartlepool ’s industrial heyday , but it has survived , grown and adapted to a changing economy , and a pint of Strongarm is as good today as it was back then . In moving the Humble Address , my hon . Friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) mentioned the famous Antony Gormley statues in his constituency . Although there are no Antony Gormley statues in Hartlepool , we are proud to have built the most famous one . Whenever I travel up the A1 through the constituency of my hon . Friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and see the magnificent Angel of the North , I remember three simple words : “ Made in Hartlepool . ” If our history is one of industry , innovation and growth , I must tell the House in all candour that it must also be our future . Too often , towns such as Hartlepool have been left behind , an afterthought in our national conversation , able only to reminisce about what we once were , not plan for what we can be . This must change , and I believe it will change under this Labour Government . Right now , we are witnessing a new industrial revolution sweep the world as we shift to a net zero future . Whereas our past was in coal and ships , our future is in new nuclear , wave and tidal . The election of this Labour Government means that revolution is finally coming to our shores , with a national wealth fund investing in jobs in every part of the country , a proper industrial strategy that forges a real partnership with business , and Great British Energy , which will make the UK a clean energy superpower . I am determined that Hartlepool will play its part in this transformative agenda , once again at the metaphorical coalface of our country ’s prosperity and economic growth . That is nothing less than Hartlepool people deserve . They are my inspiration , with their defiance , grit and determination to succeed in the face of challenge . Even in the toughest of times , we come together , stronger , more united and standing up for each other . Everywhere in our town , we see courage , community and compassion . I have been privileged to work with brilliant Hartlepool people every day to improve our town , from those in our voluntary sector organisations and community groups to our faith leaders and those in our schools , colleges and clubs , including Hartlepool United ; my children and I are proud season ticket holders . All of them are working together in the service of our town . Hartlepool has produced many leading lights across a variety of professions , from Iron Maiden guitarist Janick Gers to world boxing champion Savannah Marshall , fashion designer Scott Henshall and television presenter Jeff Stelling , whose repeated and impassioned outbursts defending the north - east , its culture , heritage and people from those who would seek to criticise it display all the formidable characteristics of a person raised in Hartlepool . The Prime Minister has rightly talked about putting his Government back into the service of working people . My unfaltering belief in public service was instilled in me from a young age . I want to take a moment to pay tribute to my father , Charles Brash , a doctor in Hartlepool for over 30 years . One of my earliest memories is of him coming home from a night on call — GPs did that in those days — having a quick bite to eat , and then heading straight back out for his morning surgery . Some people still call me “ the doctor ’s son ” , and I wear it like a badge of honour . His career , spent in the service of others , shaped my values , and my belief that only by putting people first can we achieve the change we need . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Jill Mortimer . Since her election in 2021 , Jill has forged strong relationships in Hartlepool , particularly with veterans ’ groups , which I hope to emulate . Public service is never easy , and I thank Jill Mortimer for her service to Hartlepool . I close by returning to the idea of opportunity . Right now , in 2024 , in one of the richest countries in the world , nearly 20 % of Hartlepool ’s children live in absolute poverty . Nothing could better symbolise the spectre of opportunity denied — the opportunity for a safe and secure upbringing , to fulfil their boundless potential , to get a good job and raise their own family in security and prosperity . So I welcome the announcement by my right hon . Friends the Secretaries of State for Education and for Work and Pensions on developing an ambitious child poverty strategy , because as Members know , the record is clear : when Labour is in government , child poverty falls . I am privileged to stand in this place , but I will never lose sight of the fact that it is a privilege gifted to me by Hartlepool people , far too many of whom have been denied opportunity for far too long . Hartlepool people have a reputation for , on occasion , electing fighters as opposed to quitters , and I am pleased to tell the House that they have done so again . My duty , my service , is to fight for them every day to secure the brighter future that our town deserves .