I thank the Minister for his generous words . Although I accept that I will not be cracking open a beer this evening to celebrate the Bill ’s passing — perhaps a bottle of Corona — this has been an important debate and it has demonstrated consensus across the House , save for the local difficulties of the shadow Minister , the hon . Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , which we should not go into again . A range of views were expressed about the energy mix . My view is that we need a mix of energy generation that includes all the things discussed today . I am pleased to hear that the matter will be up for future discussion and I look forward to working on it with the Government — particularly on the important point of applying pressure to developers in a way that gets the pragmatic outcome that we all deserve . I thank all Members for their contributions to the discussion . The debate stood adjourned ( Standing order No . 11(2 ) ) . Ordered , That the debate be resumed on Friday 11 July . I wholeheartedly agree . There are some incredibly cool alternatives to loud fireworks , and the general public really like them . A YouGov survey recently said that drones are more popular than fireworks in the UK , and we have seen some fantastic drone displays . There are also low - noise fireworks , but the general public still do not know quite what they are buying at the moment . I would hazard a guess that not many people would know — until they became as nerdy as me about fireworks — the difference between an F2 and an F3 firework . We need to enable , encourage and educate responsible members of the public on what they are buying and on the alternatives . There is a challenge there for the fireworks lobby , which needs to diversify . There is a hunger among the public and consumers for quieter fireworks and increased use of technology such as drones . We need to see change now , because the public are behind us — The Deputy Speaker interrupted the business ( Standing Order No . 11(2 ) ) . Ordered , That the debate be resumed on Friday 25 April .