thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i to speak during today ’s important debate . i wish to begin by take the opportunity to thank my constituent for choose change and put their trust in i at the ballot box this summer . this be indeed a " change " election . the last time that a labour mp for south dorset stand here and make his maiden speech , i be just six year old . but my labour predecessor — lord knight — do not waste any time win my support . as the local mp , lord knight relentlessly fight for my community , and he leave behind a legacy of which we can all be proud . his success include rebuild my dilapidated primary school and then rebuild my secondary school as well . lord knight be also at the heart of the campaign to win the 2012 summer olympic game bid , with weymouth and portland proudly host the sailing event . i consider myself very fortunate to have one of my predecessor work just along the corridor in the other place . this palace of westminster can be an ancient and mysterious workplace at time , so i will always be grateful for my lord knight in shin armour just around the corner . i would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , richard drax . as our mp , his commitment to our armed force community be second to none . the constituency may have change hand , but i fully intend to continue his work champion our armed force . if i may , madam deputy speaker , i would also like to pay tribute to another former member of this house , baroness hodge . many member will , like i , have work alongside baroness hodge . work with she be certainly an unforgettable experience . " relentless " , " feisty " , " ferocious " , " attack dog”—these be just some of the term bandy around the staffroom at amazon headquarters after only the brief of cross - examination by baroness hodge , and with good reason . she exemplify how to be an effective and tenacious change - maker in parliament . for more than a decade , she have be the scourge of tax - dodger and kleptocrat , white - collar criminal and oligarch alike . it be a pleasure to work alongside she in the battle against dirty money and economic crime . i look forward to continue her important work , both in this place and on the public accounts committee . before i take member on a walk tour of my constituency , i would just like to say thank you to the people who get i here . my parent , my wide family , my friend and my partner have always have my back . they have always support my endeavour , and they have give so much to ensure that every opportunity be make available to i . thank you . there be something deeply personnel about be able to represent your home . it be an honour to be able represent my friend , my family , my neighbour and my former classmate . in the year ahead , i look forward to rigorously stand up for all the community that make up south dorset . madam deputy speaker , wherever you look across my constituency , a strong sense of community and local pride be unmissable . start our stroll in the east of my constituency , we will find studland and then swanage , a small , charming seaside town . the people of swanage have much to be proud of , include the legacy of one trevor chadwick . trevor be a public - spirited man , a local schoolteacher and a lifeboat volunteer . in 1939 , he join sir nicholas winton to assemble the prague kindertransport . despite the clear danger face he , trevor go to prague to help rescue 669 child from the nazi regime , yet , much like sir nicholas winton , trevor do not seek praise or recognition for his heroism , and for many year his work go unmarked . there now stand a statue in swanage mark his proud legacy . walk past it just the other day , i be remind of the quiet selflessness and compassion that sit at the heart of all our community . we can all learn from his example . the town of swanage be also rightly proud of its many independent business , its award - win beach and its essential community hospital . without these institution , the town would be lose , so i look forward to advocate for all three at every opportunity . now , madam deputy speaker , move west on our walk along the coastline of my constituency , you be spoil . whatever other member might claim , i know that my constituency truly be the most impressive , the most spectacular , and the most charming . if you do not believe i , just ask unesco . my constituency be the proud home of the jurassic coast : st aldhelm ’s head , chapman ’s pool , bacon hole , lulworth cove , durdle door and ringstead bay be all geological gem dot along the coast . most hon . member have probably already visit this part of my constituency , either on a romantic weekend away , a summer holiday or an ill - fated geography field trip many moon ago . either way , all who visit the jurassic coast leave with lifelong memory . rural community such as corfe , worth matravers , langton matravers , winfrith and wool be all proud to call the jurassic coast our back garden . i will do all i can to defend , preserve and enhance that unique landscape . amble further west , we arrive at the friendly seaside town of weymouth . weymouth and nearby portland be a key departure point for the dunkirk evacuation and , later , the d - day landing . my home town be a generous home to soldier , sailor and airman during the second world war . in the month prior to d - day , weymouth host thousand of british and ally force as they prepare for the liberation of europe . in weymouth we do not easily forget the importance of those d - day landing , and our town be proud of the role that we play in turn the tide against fascism . in a world that often feel insecure and rive by conflict , our community will always remember the sacrifice make to defend democracy and freedom . weymouth also remain proud of a local parliamentarian , sir thomas fowell buxton . in the early 19th century he be a member of parliament for weymouth and a lead member of the abolitionist movement . alongside william wilberforce , buxton lead effort to abolish slavery throughout the british empire . wherever i go in weymouth , there be quiet reminder of that important figure and the role he play in make the world a more civilised place . we be proud of his legacy and i believe we be a kind and more caring community because of it . weymouth be a fantastic place to call home , but that do not mean our town be without its challenge . grow up there the message i too often hear be that to get on , you have to get out . i reject that outlook altogether . i be proud to call weymouth home and i will do everything i can to attract the job , investment and opportunity that every young person there deserve . arrive at the westward end of our walk through our constituency , we find the isle of portland , but we do not need to visit portland to appreciate its significance . part of this palace of westminster be build use portland limestone . the cenotaph and whitehall be also construct use that stone , as be the united nations headquarter and much of buckingham palace . we be proud that a part of portland can always be find in the corridor of power , yet westminster and whitehall can too often feel remote and far remove from life on the island . i will always stand up for the proud community live in portland , and i will do what i can to shrink the gap between community and the corridor of power . i have begin by work with the government to shut down the bibby stockholm barge , and i will continue by challenge proposal to build an incinerator and by campaign for improved healthcare and much - need green investment . well , there you have it , madam deputy speaker : a short ramble across south dorset , all enjoy from the comfort of these green benches . the countryside and coastline , the town and village that make up my constituency be brim with pride and with strong community . it be an immeasurable honour to represent each and every one of they , and i shall seek to serve they first and foremost in this house .