i congratulate the hon . member for inverclyde and renfrewshire west ( martin mccluskey ) on his excellent maiden speech , which be difficult to follow . i gently say that it be mar only by the fact that he do not reference two of his most famous constituent : william kidd , the pirate , and my mother , who be bear in houston . thank you , mr deputy speaker , for allow i to take part in this important debate at the dawn of this new parliament . i also thank my colleague for their wise counsel and help as i take my first step here in the cockpit of democracy . defence be the no . 1 task of any government , as we have hear , and i be proud that my constituency , dumfries and galloway , have many fine young man and woman currently in our armed force , and many gallant veteran who have serve on air , sea and land . of course , like every constituency , dumfries and galloway have many people work in the uk ’s world - class defence industry , which deserve our support . i worry about use the expression " punch above our weight " in relation to our armed force . a british major general who serve with distinction in afghanistan , and who know a lot more about conflict and boxing than i do , tell i , " that ’ a recipe for get knock out as soon as the bell ring . " i pay tribute to my predecessor , alister jack . i make it clear that , although such praise be customary on these occasion , i offer tribute not out of duty but out of genuine respect and admiration . as a special adviser , i have a front - row seat for alister ’s tour - de - force performance as secretary of state for scotland . under his leadership , the scotland office , small but perfectly form — not unlike myself — be a bantamweight bazooka , bang on target for the people of scotland on issue include equality , the independence debate and the benighted a75 and a77 road that be so crucial to dumfries and galloway . i hope i can apply the lesson learn at the foot of the master for the betterment of dumfries and galloway . i get the fine start possible there and i want to make sure other get the same chance . only through marry the talent and aspiration that abound in the south - west of scotland with opportunity can we defeat that blight on all rural area : depopulation . we need the three j ’s : job , job , job . we have much work to do to make ours a go - to destination , not a go - through destination . bless with a balmy climate , we be home to some of the country ’s fine dairy herd . our unspoiled landscape be a tourism dream . the terrain , for instance around newton stewart and minnigaff , be ideal for cycling . the merrick , the cairnsmore of fleet and the galloway hill be a delight for hiker . stroll on the beach at killantringan — i will help hansard with the spelling later — on the rugged rhins peninsula , and you will probably have the golden strand all to yourself , and you will see our northern irish friend in this great union just 14 mile distant . dumfrie itself , astride the mighty nith , be rightly laud as the " queen of the south " . erudite wigtown be scotland ’s national book town , and there i pick up a copy of " if " , arguably the fine work by rudyard kipling . his line , " if you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostor just the same " , resonate now on the government benches , where labour member be have a moment in the sun , but also on the opposition benches , where the blue flame of conservativism gutter in the storm , burn low , but do not go out . many suppose " if " to be about kipling ’s son , john , who be tragically kill serve with the irish guards in the great war . in fact , it be inspire by leander starr jameson , who grow up in my home town of stranraer , after his father take editorship of the wigtownshire free press . that venerable newspaper be still in circulation , and i get my first and last journalism job there , as a trainee reporter and latterly as editor . jameson lead a daring raid against the south african republic in 1896 . perhaps there be something in the pristine water of south - west scotland that instil a resilience and self - reliance in its people , for john paul jones , father of the united states navy , be also a native gallovidian . jones unfortunately go pirate on we in the american revolution . lock in mortal combat with the royal navy off flamborough head in 1779 , he be repute to have say : " surrender ? i have not yet begin to fight ! " i be proud , then , to have be elect to represent the redoubtable people of dumfries and galloway , inheritor of jameson ’s alacrity and jones ’s never - say - die attitude , both vital in today ’s febrile time . in conclusion , bonnie gallowa ' have a story past and , i be determined , a bright future . i shall endeavour , as kipling do n’t quite put it , to keep the heid .