the budget take the first step in this government ’s plan to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the country : it include an additional £ 214 million for our plan to get britain work , a new fair repayment rate in universal credit to help over 1 million of the poor household , and the big ever package to reduce fraud and error in the system , ensure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be wisely spend . there be much , much more to do , but in the department for work and pensions , change have begin . it be a great honour to be call to make my first contribution in this place as the member of parliament for the new constituency of stirling and strathallan . my constituency be the geographic heart of scotland , and what a beautiful part of the world i be lucky enough to represent ! at just under 2,500 sq km , it be predominantly a rural constituency — from its farming village , include drymen , buchlyvie , callander and killin , to its former coalmine village of bannockburn , fallin , plean and cowie ; from the bonnie bank of loch lomond to the mountain of the trossachs and the valley carve by the river forth , endrick , teith and allan . it have the city of stirling , with its majestic castle defend a royal burgh that become a royal city in 2002 , and the city of dunblane , with its magnificent medieval cathedral . politically , i follow in the footstep of a daunting list of constituency representation that include one prime minister , the father of a prime minister , two secretary of state for scotland , a secretary of state for war , a father of the house of commons and a leader of the house of lords . in my lifetime , we have have harry ewing , the godfather of devolution ; michael forsyth , who bring the stone of destiny back to scotland ; and dame anne mcguire , who as minister for disabled people sign the first human right charter of the 21st century on behalf of the united kingdom at the united nations . steven paterson and stephen kerr bring we to my predecessor , alyn smith . alyn represent stirling in the previous parliament , but prior to that , he represent scotland with distinction as a member of the european parliament . he care deeply for scotland and have public service at his heart . i wish he well for the future and thank he for his service . the coalfield of central scotland transform the landscape of the southern end of my constituency over the past 150 year . my great - grandfather , william kane , be a miner , and while work at the coalface in 1914 , a large rock dislodge from the ceiling and crush he . william die from his injury . his son , my grandfather frank , be 12 year old , and have to leave school to earn money — not to take the family out of poverty , but to keep they alive . everything that trouble i about that story have be improve by the labour party and the trade union movement , with their relentless focus on improve workplace condition and worker ’ right over the past 100 year . " we feel that something should be do . we have the idea that one of the function of the government of this country be to see to it that there should be equality , equity , and fairplay between the party , that the weak should be protect from any outrage by the strong … it be the business of the government to see to it that there should be equity and fairplay between all condition of people in the state . " — [ official report , 13 december 1922 ; vol . 159 , c. 3011 . ] those be not my word , but those of my grandfather frank ’s uncle , hugh murnin , who be also a miner . they be speak by hugh in this place , in his maiden speech , after he become the mp for stirling in 1922 . read all of mr murnin ’s speech , i be strike by how much have change from his description of work , and how much have stay the same . there be still much to do to delivery dignity and fair play , which be why i be proud that this government be raise the national living wage and , through the employment rights bill , will update the uk ’s outdate employment law and turn the page on an economy blight by insecurity , poor productivity and low pay . i should say that 12 - year - old frank , my grandfather , become a grocer ’s apprentice . he develop an entrepreneurial spark that take off when the bbc begin broadcast in scotland in the 1920 . he open bannockburn ’s radio music store to supply radio set and constantly recharge the large lead - acid battery on which they depend . that business prosper under my parent , bill and diane , and my brother michael run the business today — shop local when you can . along with coal , the river and loch of my constituency bring with they nutrient that be vital for farming . the flat floodplain of the forth be 16 mile long and 4 mile wide , and be fill with farm that today produce everything from beef to dairy and from sheep to pumpkin . for many year , the river forth be europe ’s premier oyster fishery . over 30 million oyster be harvest each year in the early 19th century , but overfishe cause a collapse and the forth oyster be declare extinct in 1957 . issue such as overfishing and sustainability be study in great depth at the university of stirling ’s international centre for aquaculture , the large of its kind in the world . it be lead the way in research to tackle the global problem of food security , hunger and sustainability through the world ’s river and sea . it be also a researcher from the institute of aquaculture who discover in 2014 that the forth oyster be still alive , with two of they grow in the river . when the railway arrive in my constituency in 1848 , it bring with it an entrepreneurial spirit that see scotland ’s first oil refinery open in riverside in stirling . until the forth bridge open in 1890 , the bridge at stirling carry most of scotland ’s good to and from the highland . scotland ’s first heavy - than - air flight take place in stirling when the barnwell brother build and fly an aircraft in the shadow of stirling castle . that entrepreneurial spirit live on in the like of highland spring , a fantastic family business in blackford that neighbour gleneagles , one of the world ’s premier hotel and golf course . in stirling , a £ 20 million investment have recently be announce to create a film and tv studio that will be the large in scotland . stirling be the first gigabit internet city in the united kingdom , and one of the first in the world to digitally map its city to create an augmented reality smartphone experience . we be a grow base for life science , manufacturing and , of course , tourism . my constituency offer some of the good outdoor activity in the country , from salmon fishing to hillwalking , with lot of family - friendly activity along the way . if history and heritage be your thing , we have castle , monument , battleground and the only work church other than westminster abbey to have host a coronation . for those who like sport , stirling be showcase to the world in 2023 with the time trial of the union cycliste internationale ’s cycling world championship . scotland ’s national swimming academy be at stirling university and have produce olympic medallist include duncan scott and robbie renwick . the uk ’s national curling academy be also in stirling , and i can not mention sport without reference judy , jamie and andy murray , whose success , resilience and mindset have forever link tennis with the city of dunblane . stirling and strathallan be not in the heart of scotland : it be the heart of scotland . much of the modern sense of scottish cultural identity originate in my constituency , from the battle of wallace and bruce at stirling bridge and bannockburn over 700 year ago to the reinvention of tartan at the mill of william wilson — also in bannockburn — in the 1800 . a much more subtle sense of my constituency be find here in this place and in the uk identity , because it be a stirling resident , a weel - kent local face call king james vi , who unite the kingdom of england and scotland in 1603 . i have walk about this place wonder which of our tradition have their origin in the tradition of the court of king james at stirling castle . stirling be celebrate its 900th anniversary this year—900 year since king david grant a small settlement on the river forth burgh status . stirling and strathallan have go on to give much to scotland , the united kingdom and the world over the past 900 year , and there be much more to come . stirling and strathallan be proud of its past and ambitious for its future , and i be hugely honour and privileged to represent my home here in this place .