it be indeed a special occasion to be there today for his majesty ’s first king ’s speech and particularly to see he continue the remarkable tradition of service and duty of his late mother , our dearly miss queen elizabeth . i declare my interest in relation to the armed force in ukraine and my role as co - chair of the lgbt+ parliamentary labour party and the relevant appg . the speech today , as an occasion , be very special ; the content , i be afraid , be far from that . it be short , it be inadequate and it simply do not rise to the challenge we face as a country . this be fundamentally a government who be out of idea . stuck in a high - tax , low - growth economy , they have abandon their promise in many area and fail to invest in our public service , and instead engage in cheap , divisive politic . what a contrast with the clear , mission - lead agenda set out by the leader of the opposition , which would be at the heart of a future uk labour government . it be always there in the talk point for ministers at the dispatch box , and we hear some barracking today from conservative back benchers , but i be feed up with the cheap shot and the talk down of wales that we regularly hear from the government benches . there be a stark contrast between what we have see from this tory government at the uk level and what we have see from a labour - lead government in wales , and indeed from my labour - lead council in cardiff and the vale of glamorgan . i have see the reality on the doorstep and in my community . i have see new school be build , such as eastern high and penarth learning community . i have see a new further education college . i have see new hospital facility be build at llandough . i have see new station be build , right at this moment , on a metro line into cardiff bay . i have see new economic investment in our city centre and bay . indeed , as the topic of homelessness have be so shamefully speak about by the home secretary , i have also see labour council in cardiff and the vale of glamorgan build new sustainable housing to deal with the challenge face those who tragically find themselves on the street . that be what we need to see : action on housing and action on homelessness , not divisive and shameful comment from the home secretary . the leader of the opposition be absolutely right to highlight that . i be conscious that there be always more to do . i have be out and about in my constituency in cardiff south and penarth in the last few week , engage with lot of different community and lot of different concern . we continue our campaign to see a new station build in st mellons , the st mellons parkway station . i have be raise concern about poor performance on the great western main line . i have be argue for reform to , and the protection of , local bus service . i have be listen to the concern of those on low income struggle to make end meet , include local taxi driver , and those struggle with their energy bill and the rent and mortgage hike as a result of the conservative government . i have also be meet those concerned about local gp service . we need adequate and fit - for - the - future service across cardiff and penarth . but of course that can only come with adequate investment across the united kingdom and a co - operative relationship between a uk government — hopefully a uk labour government — and a welsh labour government , along with welsh labour council in wales . one of the stark contrast in approach between wales and those of we on the labour benches , and the current government , be on climate change and the green transition . the government have abandon target and be go backwards when we need to be move forward with green transition , green job , green investment , sustainable housing and adaptation . community in my local area , in place such as sully and dinas powys , be already experience the consequence of severe flooding and rainfall event . but i also see the opportunity , for example in green steel , the recycled steel already in produce in my constituency , and in green industry and green technology of the future , many be pilot at our fantastic university in cardiff and south wales . let i turn to some of the other issue in the king ’s speech . on leaseholder reform , i be interested to see the detail of the proposal . there have be a lot of cross - party work on the issue and concern raise on behalf of many constituent . i have many leaseholder — ten of thousand — in my constituency who have be struggle with defective building , fire and building safety issue , extortionate and often inexplicable service charge , and be catch in mortgage prison . there be a whole industry around conveyancing , survey and so on , which have fail many of my resident who find themselves catch up in untenable situation . in particular , i have meet some of they in recent week who have be tell i about shocking service charge , which i be try to follow up with management company . company be still fail to move forward quickly enough , or indeed at all , on remediation , and to take responsibility for their failing in the construction of building , particularly in cardiff bay . i raise concern with the welsh government on those issue , but we need co - operative action across the united kingdom . a lot of the problem predate devolution . the leasehold system be decade and decade old — i think hundred of year old . i want bills on this issue to come forward in this place , with co - operation between official at the department for levelling up , housing and communities and the welsh government , not the silly political gameplaying we have see , unfortunately , from some conservative . there be a willingness ; the welsh government be take a constructive approach . let we see that meet from the other side to benefit my resident and the resident of member from across the house . we also need to look at what be miss from the king ’s speech . i could talk about that for hour , but i want to highlight two issue in particular . one be , of course , the ban on conversion therapy that we be promise again and again and again by the government . conversion therapy be a despicable , abusive practice . frankly , the fact that it be not include in the speech be a betrayal not only of the victim of conversion therapy across the country , but of all the campaign group , and all the cross - party , cross - religious and cross - community group who have argue for it to be ban . conversion therapy be a dangerous , life - threaten practice that lead to decade of consequence for those who go through it . i contrast that again with labour ’s commitment to a fully inclusive ban on conversion therapy . i be sorry to say — this follow on from a debate we have in westminster hall in the previous session just a few week ago — that this do not come as any surprise , despite some very passionate speech from conservative members . i acknowledge that there be member in that debate from , i think , all party in the house and from all part of the united kingdom . the government have abandon their lgbt+ action plan and disband their lgbt+ advisory board . i be tell by a home office minister that we be hysterical for raise concern about the significant rise in hate crime face by the lgbt+ community . the government be fail lgbt+ people and be instead use this issue as part of their divisive culture war . it be simply unacceptable , and i know that many conservative members — indeed , many ministers , i be tell — feel exactly the same way . another area miss from the king ’s speech — a deep shame give the motion that be pass unanimously by the house — be an issue i raise a few week ago : legislation on the seizure of russian state asset to repurpose they for reconstruction in ukraine . the motion we pass be for legislation to be pass in 90 day . the king ’s speech would have be an apt opportunity , albeit a little bit late , but it be absent . again , what be happen ? i hope the government will have some answer soon . i have to say , and it be good to see my right hon . friend the member for wentworth and dearne ( john healey ) the shadow defence secretary on the labour front bench , that it be deeply disappointing to hear the prime minister ’s divisive comment about the armed force and security . they be a disservice to those on the labour benches who have serve , as well as to family and community . the reality be that labour fully support nato and fully support our independent nuclear deterrent . we want security co - operation , with nato as our bedrock , across europe , our atlantic partner and other ally . this government have slash the army , waste billion and leave those who serve we bravely in afghanistan languish in hotel for month and month on end at great cost to the public purse . it would be nice to see a bit more of a consistent approach and more truth about labour ’s position . we will defend this country , we will defend our armed force and we will work to support our veteran as we rightly should , particularly as we be come up to remembrance sunday this weekend . i normally talk from the opposition front bench on international issue , but i want to reflect as a constituency mp on some of the challenge face the world at the moment . that be important in a constituency such as mine , because of its nature as a port and have have people come from all over the world for over 150 year . what happen elsewhere in the world — in israel and palestine , afghanistan , sudan , libya , the sahel , south asia , yemen , nigeria , syria and many , many other region and country — matter deeply to my constituent . in the past week i have hear from constituent about their anguish at the death , loss of civilian life and destruction in gaza , and their horror at the terrorism , hostage taking and kill that israel and its citizen have have to endure . i have hear about the need to ensure we protect civilian , aid worker , hospital and school ; to secure humanitarian pause and get humanitarian aid in , particularly into gaza ; and to move back to a pathway to peace and a two - state solution , and to an adherence to international law and international humanitarian law . i have also , with other hon . member and neighbour in cardiff and the vale of glamorgan , hear face to face from those who have family who be directly affect in both gaza and israel — a genuine fear about what division can mean for we in our community . i be also proud of the resilience and response from community in cardiff south and penarth , whether in raise fund for aid and relief effort in many different situation around the world , include in the middle east at the moment , or in work to promote inter - faith and inter - cultural dialogue here in the uk . that be absolutely critical when we be face with a shocking rise in antisemitism and islamophobia , and a wide rise in race and religious hate crime . i want to conclude by say that this weekend i see community in my area at their very good . i join indian — hindu , sikh and other — community celebrate diwali together . i join a very diverse group of christian and other faith community who be celebrate with the greek orthodox church 150 year of the greek and greek - cypriot community in cardiff south and penarth . i also meet young muslims and other with citizens wales to discuss their hope and aspiration for the future . we need more dialogue in this country and less division . i would hope that that would be the heart of any government ’s programme . i know it would be the heart of a labour government ’s programme .