thank you , mr deputy speaker , for call i . i congratulate the hon . member for moray west , nairn and strathspey ( graham leadbitter ) , for bolton north east ( kirith entwistle ) , for wolverhampton west ( warinder juss ) and for southport ( patrick hurley ) on make excellent maiden speech today . i be so honoured to be here in this historic chamber today as part of a brand - new group of green colleague , who i must now call my honourable friend . we be very pleased today to hear a wide range of new bills be propose . we welcome some measure . some we will seek to improve and some we will seek to change or add to . listen to people in my constituency during the election , it be hard not to be affect by the strength of public feeling and distress about the climate emergency and the degradation of our natural environment , and by the huge desire to defend social justice and public service . this parliament must seek to deliver for they . this be my maiden speech ; i stand here thank to the vote and value of the fantastic people of brighton pavilion . they have put their trust in i and the green party , and for that i extend my heartfelt thank and appreciation . brighton have always be a truly special place , from its origin as a fishing village and roman villa complex , to its regency and railway boom , with its huge sense of spirit and a warm welcome to every visitor to our famous beach . but brighton have always be so much more than a seaside resort . the richness and variety of our culture and entertainment be legendary . from victorian innovation , through the 1960 of my parent and my own decade of youth in the far away 1990 , to the present day , our music , theatre , comedy and literary tradition have always blend with cutting - edge , creative and exciting counter- culture movement to reflect and enrich the modern world . our cultural richness have survive , strive , struggle and then thrive through many turbulent time , not least the recent pandemic , and i be confident it will continue to do so for many century to come . i be proud that the late census confirm that nowadays my city be home to one of the uk ’s large population of lgbt+ people , and that we host the big and good pride celebration , include europe ’s large trans pride , which will be this weekend . brighton and hove be a welcoming city in so many way , and i be very proud we be a city of sanctuary , commit to a culture of hospitality and welcome for those seek refuge from war and persecution . brighton pavilion have a history of dedicated , long - serve mp . from its first election as a single - member constituency in 1950 , it be represent until 1969 by sir william burke teeling , an irish writer and self - describe " amateur tramp " , who walk from london to newcastle to explore how council be tackle unemployment . our mp be then julian amery for 23 year and derek spencer for five year , before david lepper serve in this house as a highly - respected and hardworke mp for 13 year . and , of course , i have one of the easy and most pleasurable job among new mps in pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . brighton be also a special place because it have be at the heart of the green movement in england and wales , and that continue when our own , belove caroline lucas win the seat for the green party in 2010 . caroline hold the seat through three further election , leave a 14 - year legacy that i look up to as a shin mountain to climb , as i take my very first step here today . as well as be an excellent constituency mp , of the many way in which caroline influence policy , i be most charm by her success in work with the nature writer mary colwell to win a new gcse in natural history . help to inspire and train up a generation of new david attenboroughs be a real national service . most impressive have be caroline ’s steadfast and long - stand opposition to threat to the public ’s right to protest . caroline live that principle and through it play a key role in end fracke in the uk . i know that all of we sit here today be humbly aim to live up to the high standard , value and work ethic that she represent , and to serve here with the same energy and enthusiasm . it be those principle that will guide my work as an mp , as well as some of my own value and enthusiasm . people who know my work in other place will be aware that listen to and support young people be something i feel very strongly about . with huge pleasure , i commend to the house the incredible work of brighton and hove citizens , which have just win a huge campaigning victory with a beautiful example of raise up and empower young people and their voice to make change happen . with school across brighton and hove work with college , religious group , worker , university and the charity sector , brighton and hove citizens have this year win a big new commitment from the council . after a long and engaging campaign , sixth former fi abou - chanad and tally wilcox present a 2,000 signature - strong petition and win a pledge for hundred of young people in brighton school to benefit from investment in mental health support and counselling . that be just one group of young people among many inspire organisation across our country that i can not wait to hear more about in this job . they include green new deal rise , the uk youth climate coalition , youngminds , people & planet , the national society of apprentices , the national union of students and many more . young people should have a loud voice wherever decision be be make , not just when they organise . i be therefore disappointed to see no specific bill in today ’s list remove barrier to vote for young people , include voter id and age limit for election to this house and english local council that do not apply in wales and scotland . our 16 and 17 - year - old , and our young people , need a real voice and need those measure in this parliament . i hope that , when we debate the bills put forward in today ’s king ’s speech , the voice of young people be seek out and listen to , and that many change and addition be make where they be need most , include remove the two - child benefit cap . i be grateful for the patience of hon . member in listen to i . i greatly look forward to see the impact of the young voice i plan to raise up in this chamber be grant the same attention and respect .