thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i to speak . let i say congratulation and welcome to your place . i have be move and inspire by so many contribution over the past few day , and it be an immense privilege to be make the first maiden speech of today . i also offer my good wish to the hon . member for central suffolk and north ipswich ( patrick spencer ) , who will also be make his maiden speech today . not only be he my neighbour , but he be represent a place that be really close to my heart . i be incredibly proud to be make my maiden speech as the new member of parliament for ipswich . however , this be not my first contribution in this house . yesterday , i ask a question at pmq , highlight the huge potential that ipswich possess but say that , after 14 year of neglect , we desperately need government support to help revive our town centre . however , corner of social medium instead focus on a very gentle joke i have make , when i point out that my home county of suffolk once again have a premier league football team , unlike our friend north of the border in norfolk . one keyboard warrior in particular take umbrage at that . his name be ed balls , and apparently he use to work here . he say that norwich have have a 15 - year unbeaten run in the old farm derby — a run that will now , sadly , be extend due to ipswich be promote to the premier league and norwich get knock out in the play - off last season . i be sure that that will be a bitter pill for town fan to swallow as they visit anfield , the tottenham hotspur stadium , the etihad and old trafford next season . ed ’s tweet also represent my most significant celebrity beef on social medium since steve brookstein — yes , the first winner of " the x factor " nearly a decade ago . ipswich have a rich and long history — so rich and long , in fact , that i be go to use this as an opportunity to settle an old score . now that colchester have vacate its town status , i be lay claim to ipswich be the old continuous town in england . no , i have not check that with the house of commons library , as i might have be give an answer that i do not want to hear , but two minute of search online tell i that i have a decent chance of be right — and i presume that , as i be now state it as fact in parliament , it now become true . thomas wolsey be arguably ipswich ’s most famous son , and we in ipswich have be celebrate his legacy throughout the past year through the wolsey 550 . wolsey do not always get the praise he deserve . climb the greasy pole will not win you many friend — something to which member of this house will attest , i be sure . however , his story , rise from humble beginning to become one of the most powerful statesman in england , be remarkable , and he leave his imprint on our town too . ipswich can also lay claim to ralph fiennes , constance andrews , thomas gainsborough , jean ingelow , brian eno , edith cook and even richard ayoade , to name but a few . my job over the come year will be ensure that kid grow up in ipswich today get their chance to make their dream a reality , so that when my successor come to make their maiden speech , they have a few more name to mention too . i would also like to mention my predecessor , tom hunt . while an mp , tom often speak about be neurodiverse , and be open about challenge that he face grow up . he look to tackle some of the stigma that still exist , and that be an incredibly powerful thing for a member of parliament to do . on election night , tom charitably mention our share commitment to improve the life of child with special educational need and disability , an issue that i have campaign on for many year in suffolk . i will now use my role to fight for those family here in westminster . the send crisis be a national issue , and i know many colleague from across the house will have hear countless story about the struggle that family have have to endure to access the service that should be theirs . in suffolk , we have have a decade of the most grotesque and repeat failure . i remember five year ago , after another damn report , the front page of our local paper , the east anglian daily times , show the face of just some of the child and family who have be so badly fail by a broken system , with the heartbreaking , desperate headline , " we must be hear " . as itv ’s report show today , so little have change half a decade later . those child and their family have still not be hear . this be not just about the educational impact on child , immense though they may be . it be also about the exhaustion , desperation and isolation that family suffer , day in , day out ; the month — year , even — battle for an education , health and care plan ; the time spend wait by the phone , or checking email , hop that they might finally get some positive news ; and the energy they have to find just to try to navigate this broken system , fight through tribunal , and submit mountain upon mountain of new documentation and information , all while try to care for their family . as a labour government , we can not let the suffering of vulnerable child and their family continue . it will be my personal mission in this place to fight this inequality and injustice . if i can make one final plea on this issue , as a former teaching assistant and proud gmb mp , i urge that when we talk about the crisis in retention and recruitment of teacher , we include specialist and support staff in the conversation . they be crucial to break down barrier to opportunity , too . i would like to touch on another subject that be incredibly important to i : the energy transition . this be not just an environmental necessity but an economic imperative . it can boost our economy , reduce bill , ensure great security and deliver the well pay job that we need . with gb energy , we will be able to achieve that . if britain be to become a world leader in this area , as the labour party have pledge , i want ipswich and suffolk to be right at the heart of this national renewal . why should we not be ? over the come year , thousand of job will be create in new nuclear at sizewell , in offshore wind and in solar . i be unapologetically ambitious for our town and our county . i do not want those job and that investment to drift away elsewhere . i want kid grow up in ipswich , or people look to retrain and upskill , to get those secure , well pay job . i want local business to benefit from the billion of pound that will flow out of these project , and i want our area to be the centre of national excellence . that be our future , if we be brave enough to grasp it . as a labour and co - operative member of parliament , it be particularly welcome to i that our commitment to community energy sit at the very heart of this mission . the great - ever expansion of community energy project , deliver a million new owner of energy , will be genuinely transformational , and as a proud co - operative party mp , i will champion the growth of such project , so that local people will benefit from our green transition too . many of we be just a few week into our new role , and as this debate be about second job , i will be honest in my contribution and say that i have no idea why or how any member of parliament would have a second job . we all know what i be talk about . to be the member of parliament for ipswich be the great privilege of my life , but to be frank , it be not like any other job . i think about ipswich , and its beautiful , award - win park ; its waterfront look absolutely glorious on a sunny day ; the music festival that we have now , which i would have love to have be to as a teenager — i be only slightly old now than i be then — and the fact that our town once again have a premier league football club . i might have mention that already . i think about suffolk too , the place i move to 25 year ago . i still hang out with my friend from debenham high school . i still play for the same cricket club , the mighty eye and district cricket club — my batting just as terrible , and my bowling just as slow , if not slow . i still want to walk around fram castle , and along the beach of southwold , aldeburgh and dunwich . i still pop into coes , a family business found nearly 100 year ago , and i love nothing well than eat at the lighthouse restaurant , or drink an adnams or an aspall in the woolpack or the greyhound . i be still surround by my friend here , my family and my neighbour , not to mention a million happy memory , have be shape and inspire by they for nearly a quarter of a century . i have no doubt that i will make some mistake along the way , and i know that there will be some time when my constituent disagree with i , but know that everything that i do here will be out of service , friendship and love for my home , ipswich and suffolk . i join other in welcome you to your place , madam deputy speaker . thank you for give i the chance to make my maiden speech , and to contribute to this important debate on second job , speak for the people of spelthorne . i pay tribute to all member who have make their maiden speech , in particular my immediate predecessor , the hon . member for ipswich ( jack abbott ) . he be clearly go to be a fearsome and fearless advocate for his constituent , base purely on the fact that he be prepared to risk the opprobrium of the people of colchester , the people of norwich , and perhaps most impressively of all , mr ed balls . i congratulate he . i thank the house staff for the impeccable welcome that they give we all as new member . i be , for quite a long time , a soldier , so i be bring up on the mantra that two minute early be three minute late . it be therefore no surprise that at five minute to 7 on the monday after the election , i be the first in the queue at the top of the ramp . i see two armed police officer , but there be also a doorkeeper , resplendent in his uniform of morning coat and gold badge , and his beard . not know what to expect , i approach he . he say , " good morning , mr jopp . " i be beyond impressed . he continue , " you might not recognise i under this beard , sir , but i ’ m matt , and i be with you in the scots guards in afghanistan . " i go from be impressed to be deeply touch . have have the chance to listen to a large number of maiden speech , i have notice that when the name of the member and their constituency flash up on the screen , that be sometimes meet with a knowing smile and sometimes not , depend on the name of the seat . it be like that excellent episode of " yes , prime minister " when jim hacker and sir humphrey appleby start discuss somewhere call st george ’s island . both of they suggest that they have some form of superior insight into st george ’s island , but it quickly become apparent that neither of they have any idea where on earth it be . lest my maiden speech become something like that , i think that i ought to tell the house where spelthorne be . spelthorne be everything south of heathrow airport until the thames . we be in the administrative county of surrey and the historic county of middlesex . we be inside the m25 but not in london . crazily , you can use an oyster card to take a london bus there , but not the train . we be outside the clutch of the mayor of london ’s dread ultra low emission zone charge , but accord to the church of england , we report to the bishop of kensington . hon . member might think that all those special circumstance would give rise to something of an identity crisis for the people of spelthorne , but not a bit of it , because no one who live there actually call it spelthorne anyway . instead , people say they live in staines , stanwell or stanwell moor ; in ashford , shepperton or laleham ; in halliford , charlton village or sunbury . by the way , all hon . member sit in parliament today be here thank to a notable resident of stanwell : thomas , later lord , knyvet . it be he whom the king dispatch to search the cellar beneath parliament , result in the capture of the treacherous gunpowder plotter . clearly , lord knyvet ’s ability to navigate this place be a great deal well than mine . i pay full tribute to my immediate predecessor as member of parliament for spelthorne , kwasi kwarteng , who have represent the constituency since 2010 . hon . member will not be surprised to hear that his name come up frequently on the doorstep in the last general election . kwasi be a much - respect back bencher and minister , as well as be a charismatic performer in this chamber . a strong advocate for small business in spelthorne , he instigate the spelthorne business plan competition , now in its 10th year . spelthorne people be some of the hard - work people in the country , so it be appropriate that i should be make this speech in a debate on second job ; many of my constituent have they . i too have have a selection of job . as a friend of mine recently remark , " blimey , lincoln , 25 year in the army and 10 year in private equity . where do you see more violence ? " now i be in parliament , with the huge honour of represent the people of spelthorne , and i be strike by just how important that be , particularly at the moment . i be sure that all member want to be a strong voice for their constituent and a local champion for their area , and i do too , passionately . however , we be also here to fulfil our second job : to make thoughtful contribution to the national and international debate on issue of great moment , none of which be more important , in my view , than the defence of the realm , give that the world be the most dangerous it have be since the end of the cold war . we be have a defence review , which will take time ; but time may be run out , and the right course of action — increase defence expenditure — be all too clear now , let alone in 12 month ' time when the review report . i gently suggest to all member of this house that to govern may be to choose , but it be also to act , and that the answer to autocracy be rarely more bureaucracy . to finish on a light note , i hope that hon . member now know a little bit more about spelthorne . they be welcome to visit any time , whether to hear about the work of bp ’s global technology centre as it seek to decarbonise the world , or to see the large film studio in europe and the second big in the world after hollywood . they might instead be interested in a flutter on the horse at kempton park — not that we on the conservative side of the house be allow to bet any more — or maybe just to potter along the thames like " three men in a boat " . madam deputy speaker , i say i would finish , and i do not make promise i can not keep . i make one promise to the people of spelthorne . it be that if they elect i , we would move to the constituency . thank solely to the effort of my amazing wife caroline , we pick up the key to our new home in spelthorne on tuesday , and will have move there by the end of the weekend . that be the first promise i have keep to the people of spelthorne . i look forward , as i serve they , to there be many more . thank you , madam deputy speaker . it be a real privilege to make my maiden speech with you in the chair , and a delight to follow the hon . member for spelthorne ( lincoln jopp ) and my hon . friend the member for ipswich ( jack abbott ) . i can not promise that my speech will be as witty as theirs , but i do support a proper premier league team in manchester united—[interruption . ] i have lose the house already . it be an honour to make my maiden speech in this house as the very proud mp for my home town . telford be where i be bear and raise , and where i be now bring up my own family . i be telford and proud . i begin by talk about those mp i follow . my predecessor , lucy allan , work on many notable cause . i particularly pay tribute to her tireless work in respect of the post office scandal , and to her constituency team , who have support the resident of telford over the past nine year . i would also like to mention and thank my friend and mentor , my immediate labour predecessor david wright , who serve our town and this house with passion for 14 year . i also want to pay tribute to the first person to hold the job of mp for telford , a great supporter and crucial adviser to i , who now sit in the other place , lord bruce grocott . lord grocott lead i on a tour of this house in 1997 , when i be just 11 year old — right hon . and hon . member may be forgive for think that i look to old to have be 11 in 1997 , but that be what 14 year in local government do to you . telford be a new town in shropshire , one that have grow significantly since its designation as a new town in 1963 . a town with a proud history and strong local identity , we be home to the west midland ' only world heritage site , the ironbridge gorge , the true birthplace of the industrial revolution . we have long - establish community such as madeley , oakengates and dawley , which be record in the domesday book , and other proud community too . i be of course a son of telford , but also of dawley , the birthplace of captain matthew webb , who in 1875 become the first man to swim the english channel . his monument in dawley high street say , " nothing great be easy . " telford be great , but over recent year we have certainly not have it easy . despite the challenge it have face , just like our own world champion boxer liam davies , telford have continue to punch above its weight . we have deliver housing growth and economic growth . we have outstanding education , with outstanding primary school , first - class secondary school , and we be home to the thomas telford school and to state - of - the - art far and high education facility , with telford college and harper adams university in the centre of telford . we have a record number of green and protect space . in fact , if hon . member would like to visit telford , join the 3.2 million people who do so each and every year , they will notice just how green we be . we be home to million — and i mean million — of tree . we be know as a forest city . in telford we be also incredibly proud to be home to some of the big defence company . right now , telford resident be work on tank destine for ukraine and distribute essential equipment , from uniform to morphine , that will be deploy across all part of the world to our brave armed force . our relationship with the armed force be deep and strong . we be home to over 8,000 veteran — my own family have serve in all three service — and our council become one of the first authority to be award a ministry of defence gold accreditation for our work on the military covenant . for the past eight and a half year , i have serve as leader of telford council , and we have do a lot over that time . we have regenerate our town centre , with the creation of southwater . we have be a business - win and business - support council : we be home to besblock , which provide brick to almost every house build company across the country , and to aviramp , which provide airport across the world with boarding ramp ; and we also provide wheelie bin to most household across the country . we have keep our council tax among the low of all council in england . we have support child with outstanding child service , deliver exceptional adult service , and be leader within our sector . as well as a be a council leader , i have lead labour in local government . i have chair the cross - party local government association . indeed , i be proud to be the first former chair of the lga to sit in this house rather than in the one down the corridor . i welcome to the house hon . member and friend who have serve as councillor and council leader . in telford , as in the rest of the country , poverty and child poverty be increase . it be heartbreake that almost one in 4 child be live in poverty . for i , that be not an academic issue ; it be personal . i be in poverty as a child . i remember switch the light off in our council house and lay on the floor as debt collector bang on our door . i remember the embarrassment of queue for a blue free school meal ticket as many of my friend get their pay yellow one . that deep - down impost syndrome remain and be very much with i today . for too long , town such as telford have have their contribution to housing and job growth bank , but the investment and support that be so desperately need to break the cycle of poverty have not arrive . despite our housing growth , we have not have the investment need over the past 14 year — the closure of our a&e and the relocation of our consultant - lead woman and child ’s unit be example . i say to my constituent that i will never stop fight to bring service back to telford . i pay tribute to telford crisis support , which work with the community and provide 238,624 meal last year — up by almost 21 % on the year before . it also provide clothe , nappy and the very basic of life , offer a vital lifeline to family . family come in many different shape and size . from the age of 11 , i live with my nan , betty , who be and be my guide star . although i live with my nan from such a young age , my parent have always be there for i , too . i be lucky to have people like my great aunty dil , who provide i with the financial support that mean i could be the first person in my family to go to university , where i read law and qualified as a solicitor . i be so lucky to have my own family now . i be a proud dad and stepfather to evan , millie and owen — my wife elise and i see no distinction in our family . part of the role of councillor be to be a corporate parent . those in state care should be consider part of all our family . in telford , 423 young people be in our care , and we support 249 care leaver . when i be the chair of the lga , i describe the local government sector as the corporate uncle and aunty of those in care and those who have leave care . what , then , be this house ? what be member of parliament to those child in state care ? maybe we be the corporate great aunty and uncle with resource , influence and wisdom — just like my auntie . what more can we do to support our child in case ? to child live in council home , in temporary accommodation or in our care , who be pick up free school meal , food parcel and avoid debt collector , i say this : " if i can get here , so can you . " to provide a well future to all our child , we must reform our public sector . yes , for some that be a dry subject , but it be the only way to fix our broken system . reform be vital and prevention be key . the long - term approach to investment — invest a pound now to save hundred of pound many time over — will be important . invest in and focus on the first 1,000 day of a child ’s life can lead to well life outcome and massive saving to the public purse . we must always ask ourselves how public service can well serve the public . the answer be so often with the user of those service and those who work in they . when those who have skin in the game be empower and trust , the result be always well . we know that so well in telford , after the recent work of holly , scarlett and joanne . for too many , our country do not work for they . not only be they disconnected , but they feel a million mile away from this place . that allow other to exploit the void — to divide we . we — all of we — should work together , despite our political difference , to help connect this place to our citizen , so that democracy do not just survive , but thrive . i hope that i can work on that nationally in the come month and year . i thank the people of telford for trust i with the incredible honour and privilege of represent my home town . i will stand up for telford and for they . i know that we have a long road ahead of we , but i be committed to the challenge . after all , nothing great be easy .