thank you , madam deputy speaker , for this opportunity to make my maiden speech . may i congratulate you on your recent election ? i also congratulate all those who have make maiden speech today , particularly the hon . member for high peak ( jon pearce ) , who speak so passionately about the beauty of his constituency and the childhood experience that he bring to this house . i be honour to have be elect by the people of thornbury and yate to be their voice and champion here in parliament . ours be a beautiful and hugely varied rural constituency , with the town of thornbury , yate and chipping sodbury and many village , stretch from hill , falfield and charfield in the north to bridge yate , siston and wick in the south . to the east be the cotswold escarpment , part of a designate national landscape . to the west be the severn estuary , a ramsar wetland of international importance and formerly home to the aust ferry , make famous by bob dylan . there be much worth visit locally , from historic attraction such as dyrham park and acton court , to the more modern . bristol zoo project carry out important international conservation work , while not far away — i hesitate to mention this , when my leader , my right hon . friend the member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) might be listen — there be an artificial inland surfing lake call the wave . there be a real history of innovation locally , although sadly my own parish of frampton cotterell ’s claim to the invention of the stetson hat appear to be little more than an urban legend . however , we can be proud that the pioneer of vaccination , edward jenner , start his medical training in chipping sodbury . nowadays , many of my constituent work in cut - edge industry in our region , such as aerospace . with a background in math and software engineering , i take a keen interest in see those industry flourish , and i want to ensure that our young people can benefit from the opportunity they bring . my constituency be of course more than its landscape and history ; it be the people who live there and their fantastic community spirit . i see that in my own village during the pandemic , when hundred of volunteer rally to help other . whether it be the big lunch in chipping sodbury , the yate ageing better festival , thornbury carnival or any myriad other event and group , they all contribute to make the constituency a wonderful place to live . i thank my predecessor luke hall , who serve thornbury and yate for nine year , during which time he champion neonatal care leave and hold post in the department for education and the ministry of housing , communities and local government . i wish he and his family all the good for the future . i also thank his predecessor , the former pensions minister sir steve webb , who have be a great source of wisdom for i and be fondly remember by many constituent . he set a very high bar for all his successor , and i will do my good to meet it . while i be thank people , i put on record my gratitude to councillor maggie tyrrell , who have recently succeed i as the leader of south gloucestershire council . i know that the council be in safe hand as i bring that experience to this place . i be grateful for the opportunity to make this speech in this important debate , because if we be to tackle the climate crisis and cut congestion on our road , we must get rail service back on track to give people genuine alternative to get around effectively . there be currently three railway station in my constituency . yate station be reopen in the 1980 , and we desperately need the propose redevelopment . i will also be seek to ensure that the funding for half - hourly service be extend beyond the current end date of 2026 . that will not only benefit yate , but provide an hourly train for the new station plan at charfield . the station at pilning be a parliamentary station , with just one train run a week to avoid formally close it . its location , near the grow industrial location of severnside , mean that if properly reopen , it be prime place to help the many worker who travel from south wales to make the trip without a car . the third station be severn beach . once a seaside resort , the line now serve commuter . however , commuter can be leave disappoint by flood on the line , as well as the fact that the service be not more frequent . rail campaigner be also keen to see other station reopen , such as coalpit heath and thornbury , but for that to be possible , we need national investment in westerleigh junction to increase capacity and unlock this potential . i hope that the secretary of state will commit to make that part of the integrate infrastructure review that be reference early . as my hon . friend the member for bath ( wera hobhouse ) say , ultimately passenger be not interested in who run the train ; they simply want they to run on time and for the ticket to be affordable . give the continue squeeze on people ’s finance , we need an immediate freeze on rail fare and our fragmented ticketing system need simplify to cut cost for commuter . we also need to think about integration with other form of public transport . in my constituency , we have see serious cut to local bus service , with many village leave with no regular bus at all . my aim in this place will be to champion the right of people to have affordable and green method of transport , whether they live in rural or urban area . in conclusion , i promise to work tirelessly for my constituent , not only on fix our railway , but on other issue too , such as the fact that our school be among the low fund in the country and that it be almost impossible to register with an nhs dentist locally . i look forward to work constructively with right hon . and hon . member across the house to address these problem and ensure that the people of thornbury and yate get the fair deal they deserve . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the member for easington ( grahame morris ) . may i say what a pleasure it be to see you in the chair , madam deputy speaker ? you have make history with your election and you will have inspire many woman and girl across our country . it be wonderful to see a number of my neighbour here , include my hon . friend the members for crewe and nantwich ( connor naismith ) , for stafford ( leigh ingham ) , for stoke - on - trent north ( david williams ) and for stoke - on - trent south ( dr gardner ) , as well as many hon . friend from across the west midland . i say a special thank you to my former boss , my hon . friend the member for newport west and islwyn ( ruth jones ) , who be sit with i here on the government benches , a far cry from when i sit opposite she in her office upstairs . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the members for high peak ( jon pearce ) , for hertford and stortford ( josh dean ) , for smethwick ( gurinder josan ) , for stevenage ( kevin bonavia ) and for south ribble ( mr foster ) , all of whom give important , interesting and witty speech , as well as to the hon . member for thornbury and yate ( claire young ) and for taunton and wellington ( mr amos ) . it be a real honour to make my first speech in this house as the member of parliament for newcastle - under - lyme , and in such an important debate too . i pay tribute to the secretary of state both for the bill and for her leadership on these issue . she and i share an interest in northern ireland . i be very grateful for all the work she have do to get we to where we be today . i start by acknowledge the deep responsibility i feel to the people who send i here . i thank they for place their trust in i and i will work every day to honour it . my journey to this place start in the former british empire . my maternal grandfather arrive in the united kingdom from jamaica , to serve king and country and to help fight fascism . he dock in liverpool in 1941 and , after meet my grandmother , build a life in staffordshire , the county i be proud to represent today . my dad , who be here in the gallery , move here from the then rhodesia , now zimbabwe , in 1979 and have the luck to meet , and the wisdom to marry , my mum , a good staffordshire woman , bear and breed . she be also here in the gallery . i would not be here without either of they . i stand on the shoulder of my grandparent , mr and mrs bob owen and mr and mrs adam jogee . their blood run in my vein . their life story forge my identity and my outlook on the world . the great gift my parent and grandparent have give i be their example of what courage , tolerance , love and diversity mean , not as academic concept but as live experience . that i be stand here today , a member of the house of commons on the government benches , be not inevitable , but it be possible . my election — the first black man to represent anywhere in the west midland — say so much about who we be in 2024 and what our nation mean . while it be with a sense of sadness that i acknowledge that none of my grandparent be here to witness this speech , i be confident that , if they be , they would all be say to each other what a wonderful country this be . i be proud of my englishness and my britishness , and of the simple truth that , in our united kingdom , you can be anything you want to be with the right support , a work ethic , real opportunity and a good heart . i be not define by my colour , but i be very , very proud of it , and labour government be key to build the kind of enable environment that mean that success and a good life be available to all . it be that passion for share opportunity that drive i every day . for those who do not make it to campaign with i in the general election — i note that my hon . friend the member for hornsey and friern barnet ( catherine west ) , who i know very well , do make several visit , for which i be grateful — newcastle be an ancient market town in the middle of england . its rich history date back to medieval time , with its market charter grant in 1173 , which mean that last year we celebrate the borough ’s 850th anniversary . the people who live , learn and work in newcastle - under - lyme be decent , caring , proud and honest . indeed , when i think of their honesty , i be remind of two particular chat that i have during the campaign . this be semi - dangerous , i suppose , when we start quote our constituent . i meet steve and his son in betley — in fact , in the very good swan pub in betley . i recommend it to anyone pass through , particularly my hon . friend the member for crewe and nantwich ( connor naismith ) , who be very welcome . the first thing steve say to i be , " you ’re much short than i think you would be in real life . " it be the final chat after a long day of door knock , and my first reaction be , " thank you very much , i think . " i then meet christine , a pensioner from wolstanton . she say , " you be much young and well look than you look in your leaflet . you need new leaflet . " i will not share the story about horse rid with my friend carol whitehouse in audley , but suffice it to say , we will all do anything safe and legal to get elect . i be remind in these conversation of the age - old adage that the voter be never wrong . that be a lesson that conservative party members — not that there be many here tonight — may want to heed . in my patch , you know where you stand , and if you build trust , show that you care and listen , local people will have your back . we be bless with very fine centre of learn : we be home to newcastle college and the wonderful keele university , one of the well high education institution in our country . my hon . friend the members for stoke - on - trent central ( gareth snell ) , for stoke - on - trent north ( david williams ) and for stoke - on - trent south ( dr gardner ) seek to take credit for it and claim it every day , but it be ours . we have many brilliant school with wonderful teacher , teach assistant and special educational need co - ordinator . i have be honour to visit many of our school over the past 18 month . i will stand up every day to rebuild the support for child and their family with special educational need , because the current situation in staffordshire , and in newcastle - under - lyme in particular , be unacceptable . my constituency boast beautiful park and green space , such as queen ’s gardens and the victorian brampton park , know for its museum , aviary and landscape garden . i be look forward to you visit we , madam deputy speaker . we have lyme valley , the old keele golf course , and much rural , productive green belt in the northern part of my constituency , centre around audley and madely . while i completely and unequivocally support our government ’s plan to build more home , we must , at the same time , do as much as we can to protect our green space and deliver the infrastructure that go with any new home . it must be a case of do thing with , not to , people . while some might look north of the watford gap and see a cultural desert , i see vibrancy . i be especially proud of the new vic theatre , know for its innovative production and meaningful community engagement . we can not talk about north staffordshire without mention the old mine and pit in chesterton , silverdale and crackley , nor can we avoid talk pottery and ceramic , because our region be home to the age - old pottery industry . i be look forward to work across the a500 and the a34 with my hon . friend the members for stoke - on - trent central , for stoke - on - trent south and for stoke - on - trent north . my constituency boast of be home to a prime minister : the sixth prime minister of australia , mr joseph cook — long dead , but he be bear there . he be bear and raise in the old mining village of silverdale . i be proud of the fact that a prime minister be bear in our patch . the only issue i have with cook be that he start off in the labour party and end up a tory , but nobody — or almost nobody — be beyond redemption . on that basis , madam deputy speaker , you will forgive i for emphasise his passion for aim high when i talk to the young people of newcastle about he , rather than his move around political party . newcastle - under - lyme could not be well place . we be border by the west coast main line and the m6 , between birmingham and manchester , not far from derby and nottingham and only 90 minute or so from our capital — when avanti choose to work properly . robust rail infrastructure be a strategic necessity for newcastle - under - lyme , for our region and for our united kingdom . it will stimulate economic growth , bring people together and tear down barrier , and we can do that while at the same time protect our environment and preserve our planet . address the north - south divide in transportation infrastructure be about not just fairness , but maximise the full potential of the north to contribute to a more balanced , prosperous and sustainable future for all of we . that be why i welcome the bill before we . it show my constituent that we mean it when we say that we would focus on get our nation back on track . i see the minister for bus , my hon . friend the member for wakefield and rothwell ( simon lightwood ) , on the front bench ; i look forward to speak to he about bus soon too . newcastle - under - lyme be rich in coal , lead to extensive mining activity for not far off 200 year . the coal industry play a crucial part in the town ’s development and economy . the development of the trent and mersey canal in the 18th century enhance transportation link , facilitate the movement of coal and pottery . the canal system be vital for industrial distribution before the advent of our railway . the wonderful apedale museum and heritage centre provide future generation with a window back to the proud history of our town . i first go when i be about 12 , and it be still go strong . the apedale valley railway operate at the same site , add to a great family day out . sadly , though , like most of the west midland and the north , while we be proud of our past , we have not see sufficient focus on build our future by diversify our industry and job . as the historical and traditional industry decline , my constituency transition to a service - orient economy base on education , healthcare and retail . rather than tory soundbite and gimmick , this new labour government have a plan to deliver real change , drive by a mission of national renewal . that be clear from this bill and from the new deal for work people . let we be clear : under the tories , work people suffer more than a decade of fall and flatlining pay , while price in the shop go up and energy bill soar . people across newcastle - under - lyme still feel the bad effect of the cost of living crisis today . the tories break our country and we be all still pay the price . labour ’s new deal for work people be a plan to make work pay , ensure security at work and help to provide the work - life balance that everyone deserve . this bill and an improved rail service will bring connectivity and growth and , set it alongside the new worker ’s deal to ensure that work people can prosper , we will see the power of a labour government . clean our air and tackle waste crime be a priority for the people who send i to parliament . walleys quarry landfill be a disgraceful example of the bad excess of profit over people and we will not stand for it any more . it be an environmental crisis and a health one too . that be why i be grateful that my right hon . friend the environment secretary today answer my call and those of all member of newcastle - under - lyme borough council , and grant the council permission to proceed with legal action against walleys quarry ltd. that be more do in three week than the last three environment secretaries do in three year . it require the law to be change , but i know that the environment secretary have hear i loud and clear . i be fortunate — i be keep an eye on the clock , madam deputy speaker — to have meet and to know my three immediate predecessor date back to 1986 , aaron bell , paul farrelly and the noble baroness golding . i be grateful to they all for their service to the people of newcastle - under - lyme and i wish they and their family very well . i have be lucky to have have wonderful support and advice from some brilliant people since my election and over the year . i want to make a special mention of former prime minister julia gillard , former tánaiste joan burton and a former member of this house , lady hermon , who make my wedding cake — our wedding cake , i should say ; alison be probably safe at cut it . for i , this be personal . newcastle - under - lyme be where my wife alison and i will raise any family that we be bless with . i want to say how grateful i be to my wife alison , who have be on this journey with i over the last seven year , on foot , by plane , by bus , in the car and on our railway . i love and admire she and her work as a nurse in our national health service — work that will be strengthen by this labour government . i also want to acknowledge the support of my in - law , who be watch these proceeding from northern ireland . the last really important speech i give be on my wedding day . memory of that speech be the reason alison and my family be very pleased indeed that i have an unofficial time limit — although i be push it . my speech as a new husband last 28 minutes—[interruption . ] very short . it be time by my close mate and friend and they have not , to this day , let i forget it ; it take that long due to the appearance of some very happy tear . today be a marginally short speech , and there be no tear , but there be emotion and determination . there be love — love of family and love of country — and a resolute determination to do my utmost to ensure , in newcastle - under - lyme and across our united kingdom , that all family know that in the year ahead , their child will be able to build life of opportunity , community , security , success and hope .