thank you , madame deputy speaker , for invite i to speak . like many colleague , i stand on the bank of my local river , the river trent , during the general election campaign , and look out over the murky water , i promise resident that the next government would change a broken system . this broken system have enable our water quality to drop to the point where only 14 % of river and lake in england have a good ecological status , accord to the environment agency . since be elect , hundred of resident of rushcliffe have contact i to say they be concerned about our broken water and sewerage system , describe it as symptomatic of a break britain . i be therefore pleased that today ’s bill mark the start of a significant turnaround process for the health of our nation ’s water . local to rushcliffe , the datum have be consistently go in the wrong direction . there be 471 sewage dump in my constituency in 2022 , and this more than double to 958 sewage dump in 2023 . the absolute number of sewage dump be of course a crude indicator , but , sadly , the cumulative impact have also grow from 3,733 hour in 2022 to 10,774 hour in 2023 . the direct impact on rushcliffe resident be palpable , especially in village such as east leake that be susceptible to flooding , which frequently include rural sewage . i welcome the work that severn trent be start to take by upgrade a nearby treatment work , double processing capacity by the end of march 2025 . however , for many resident this investment be far too late and should have be make year ago , in an era when water company be cream off profit and fail to act as true and honest custodian of the national water network . to that end , i encourage the secretary of state and his team to think carefully about who we want to be the future custodian of our water network . if water and sewage company go under , i believe we — the state — should always be prepared to step in to offer a genuine public alternative to hedge fund and the like . as with rail and energy , we should be prepared to start a process whereby the state once again offer to play a more active role in run basic universal service , challenge private sector organisation that have happily pay out dividend while allow 3 billion litre of water every day to be lose through leaky pipe . fundamentally , i believe it be the right of each and every one of we to be able to enjoy our beautiful river , lake and sea without the fear of get sick . so on behalf of my constituent in rushcliffe , i welcome the many positive measure in this bill as it seek to enhance enforcement power and to start clean up our water for good . move forwards , there should be no more stick plaster fix , because , quite frankly , the very least that my constituent deserve be a water and sewage system fit for the 21st century .