it have be a real privilege to share the debate with so maiden speech this afternoon — something i do not expect . my hon . friend the member for ribble valley ( maya ellis ) be not in her place just now , but i be sure her father would have be proud of she , as will her husband . i have a fantastic charity in my constituency call dads rock , which support dad and give they confidence . it sound like her husband be a dad who rock . it have be remarkable that margaret thatcher have be invoke quite a few time . it be quite unusual for her name to be mention so many time in my presence . i grow up in fife during the 1980 , and i be sure my hon . friend the member for glenrothes and mid fife ( richard baker ) would agree that the impact that she have there be still feel today . people still feel the impact of the rapid deindustrialisation of proud community . i be sure that my hon . friend have casework still about the impact of that . it be emotional yesterday to hear the chancellor deliver her fantastic speech . i be still a little hoarse today from all the emotion . this be the budget our country need , and the imf agree , which be incredible . it be great news for labour mps to wake up to this morning — i expect colleague from other party be less happy . the chance of my be elect be always slim , but i promise those i meet on the campaign trail that labour would get our country back on track . yesterday ’s budget be proof that we be serious about that . we have spend the week since the election clearing up the mess which be leave by other , but the budget set down the foundation for what we want to do next . it be transformative budget . i can not believe we be achieve so much in our first budget , but it be only the start of a real change for our country . the budget will work for both the work people who call edinburgh south west home , but also the young and retire people who deserve well - fund public service . the measure that we set out yesterday be a re - set , establish the tone for the remainder of this parliament and for the come decade , not just five year . go be the irresponsible commitment , without plan to follow through , that we have be deal with since the election . it feel like the grown - up be now run the country . we have a budget that provide the stability to encourage growth and investment in our nation ’s infrastructure and our public service . after read through the detail of the budget , it be clear that when my colleague anas sarwar say , " read my lip : no austerity under labour " he mean it . the chancellor have deliver . the budget will deliver for the people of scotland , with a record - break £ 47.7 billion for the scottish government ’s budget in 2025 - 26 . that have the potential to be entirely life change not just for my constituent , but for people right across scotland . the chancellor yesterday prove that when labour win , scotland win , with the measure announce result in more investment per head of population in scotland than in the rest of the uk . the scotland office be now equip with a budget for trade mission around the world , sell brand scotland and bring in new investment and custom to countless scottish business . some 200,000 of the lowest - pay scot will also feel the benefit in their payslip . we will close the age band on the living wage , which have always be unacceptable . the budget have protect work scot and have lay the foundation for a new era of investment and growth in scotland , raise money from those with the broad shoulder . with all that in mind , i find it rather embarrass that snp members talk with a straight face about this be an austerity budget . it be almost as if they write their speech before they hear the budget . it be quite curious . i can only guess — as other have comment , none of they be here today — that they be busy rewrite their line and think about how they be go to respond . but i think a lot of people in scotland will find it unacceptable that no snp members be here today to engage in this debate . be it not time , when the uk labour government have give the scottish government their large ever fund settlement , that the snp begin to take responsibility for its own mismanagement of scotland ’s finance ? in government , the snp have waste million on pet project rather than the service on which so many scot rely . we have have ferry with paint window . as i speak , a hospital in edinburgh be be close as an emergency action because of a lack of maintenance . this be not a small hospital . the princess alexandra eye pavilion cater for 1,400 out - patient per week and it have be close almost overnight . it be a plan process , but one that have be force . it be absolutely incredible and shameful . in parallel with that , local authority have be starve of cash and our town and city have find their public service decimate . on tuesday , i meet third sector group in my constituency who be prepare to make staff redundant due the pressure of snp cut to social care . at 10 past 12 yesterday , just as the chancellor be get ready to speak , i receive a whatsapp message from a gp serve one of the most deprived part of my constituency . she describe the cut to social care service in edinburgh as catastrophic and devastating . at quarter past 11 last night , i receive an email from a gp make exactly the same point . the snp will blame westminster or howl austerity , but in reality that be mince — that be a scottish phrase , madam deputy speaker . the scottish government ’s own decision be to blame for " much of the pressure " face scotland ’s finance . that be not just my view , but the consider view of the official economic forecaster in scotland . the budget present the scottish government with a choice . they can use the record funding to own the problem that they create and get our public service back on track , include the social care service i talk about . the only alternative to that be hand over power to anas sarwar in scotland , because more guddle can not be an option but i fear that that be what we be go to get . if the snp be not up for that challenge , scottish labour be ready to step in . my constituent know more than most the impact of the snp ’s cut and mismanagement , because edinburgh — scotland ’s capital — have the worst - fund local authority in scotland . with this additional funding , it be high time that the scottish government do the right thing and stop starve our council of the resource it need . councillor cammy day , edinburgh ’s council leader , make that demand yesterday . let we hope that the funding will be a lifeline to social care provider . in 2026 , scottish voter will have the opportunity to elect a scottish labour government that will work hand in hand with this uk labour government to continue to deliver for the people of scotland . however , until then , we scottish labour mps , and our colleague at holyrood and in council chamber , will hold the scottish government to account for how they choose to spend the additional funding . after all , i think we can all agree that the scottish government have not just need more cash ; they have need to get well at spend it . we see yesterday what a labour chancellor can do to turn around the life of work people , even in the face of a shocking legacy hand to we by the conservatives . this government have give the scottish government all the financial tool they need to succeed . just imagine how truly transformative it would be if we have a scottish labour finance secretary work in partnership with a labour chancellor here in london . that be our goal .