much like one of clwyd east ’s famous son , john prescott , who hail from prestatyn , i do hope my maiden speech pack a punch . give that the custom in a maiden speech be for the new member to talk about some of the good bit of their constituency , come back from a summer of attend carnival , fête , agricultural show , a classic car festival , a duck race , fun day and dog show have make my job today a little easy . today , i be go to take the house on a whistle - stop tour of clwyd east , a place that it be my great privilege to represent . it be apt that i give my maiden speech in a debate about great british energy , as clwyd east boast on its coastline the port of mostyn , with gwynt y môr wind farm , a uk leader in offshore wind power , and north hoyle offshore wind farm , off the coast of prestatyn . both demonstrate the transformative nature of offshore wind for our country , through the energy that they generate and the local employment that they provide . great british energy will see that go even far , tackle the climate crisis and create good - quality , long - term , sustainable skilled job in north wales and across the uk . prestatyn ’s beautiful stretch of coastline be not just useful for produce clean energy ; it be also a hub of tourism , with its blue flag beach , beautifully keep station and public garden , and high street with lot of brilliant local business . though i be proud to be the first mp for the new constituency of clwyd east , i pay tribute to my predecessor in this part of the seat , dr james davies , the former mp for the vale of clwyd constituency . from prestatyn , james use his time in parliament to be a dementia champion , and serve his country in government . holywell be the next major town along the coast . st winefride ’s well , the lourdes of wales , bring in thousand of visitor a year . there be the old water mill at basingwerk abbey , base at greenfield valley , fame for its cotton and textile mill in the 19th century , and latterly for its brilliant heritage trail , wonderful dog walk and very challenging parkrun . holywell high street be also home to holywell area community museum , which feature my great - grandfather ’s st john ambulance uniform and my great - uncle ’s mining helmet from the point of ayr colliery . clwyd east have a proud mining heritage , with most family near the coast have link to the point of ayr or bettisfield colliery . that heritage also form an important part of my upbringing , and be the reason i be so proud of labour ’s commitment to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . as the 684th woman to be elect to parliament , i would like to pay tribute to eirene white , a trail - blazer and — like yourself , madam deputy speaker — a deputy speaker who be integral to labour ’s commitment to equal pay , as the 58th woman elect to parliament . clwyd east have a vast and diverse geography , contain coastal town , the clwydian mountain range and the many unique village at its base . these village provide much in term of innovation and activity , through the brilliant initiative they champion and fantastic event that they hold — from community - own pub and shop to agricultural show and music festival . hail from the small village of bagillt , i be immensely proud to have such a wealth of impressive , small and mighty village in my constituency . farming be central to the economy and culture of clwyd east , with 68 % of the constituency serve as agricultural land . in may , i head to clawdd offa farm , near northop , to meet national farmers union county chairman david williams and his family on their dairy farm . after a brief chat , we head out into an enclose field full of cow . in one of the more surreal moment of be a parliamentary candidate , i look out in front of i and could not help but observe aloud , " why would anyone want to spend their day in an enclose space with horde of rowdy , low mammal ? " , to which david reply , " i quite agree becky — you must be mad ! " move south , clwyd east ’s small town be caerwys , which play host to the very first eisteddfod , and be also the home of dr tim erasmus , chair of the caerwys historical society and my very much admire former politic teacher . next be the historic market town of mold , a town very close to my heart as it be where i spend many summer perform with my dance school at theatr clwyd and where i go to sixth form at the alun school . the alun school work to give its student the good opportunity to succeed — something that i be firmly committed to . maximise opportunity for young people be a passion that i know i share with one former predecessor from the delyn constituency , david hanson — after all , i first come to parliament on work experience with david 13 year ago . so committed be david to provide opportunity for young people that he be continue to monitor and support my development by join the other place as lord hanson . i be so proud and excited to work alongside a political hero of mine under a new labour government , whose resolve to do the very same thing 32 year ago pave the way for i and a generation of young people to access opportunity and succeed . between 2019 and 2024 , delyn be serve by rob roberts . i be hearten by rob ’s local root and close tie with the community that bring he up , as well as his keenness to work with community council and his proud use of the welsh language , have go to the welsh - medium school maes garmon . fel mae nhw dweud , " cenedl heb iaith , cenedl heb galon . " as well as have educate two mp , mold be also the home of daniel owen square ; bailey hill , or mold castle ; and a thriving number of independent shop and business . with a summer recess of sample cake at local fête have take its toll on my waistline , i be grateful to the brilliant independent clothe shop that have save the day , include simmi , where i find the perfect outfit to make my maiden speech in . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you ; that be very kind ! as be the case throughout the constituency , people in mold take great pride in their town and contribute to the roll series of event and festival throughout the year . i be also privileged to represent the beautiful town of ruthin , with its rich history and endure architecture . as well as ruthin castle and its resident peacock , the local community have work to make sure that ruthin ’s old courthouse , jail and market hall be restore and open to the public . ruthin also host the incredibly popular ruthin festival , a fantastic annual event run by local volunteer and proudly conduct yn gymraeg . head over the horseshoe pass , the final large town of the constituency be llangollen . as the host of the annual llangollen international musical eisteddfod , llan be proud to be the place where " wales welcome the world " . i do have ticket to the eisteddfod this year — a night of west end musical number on 4 july — but clearly the right hon . member for richmond and northallerton ( rishi sunak ) have other idea . with llangollen in my constituency , i must hold the title for the constituency with the good and most varied day out . where else could you expect to ride on a heritage steam train in the morning and head just 10 minute down the road to kayak across an aqueduct with unesco world heritage status in the afternoon ? llangollen railway and the froncysyllte aqueduct be only part of what clwyd east have to offer . if you be feel a bit dizzy at this point , madam deputy speaker , that be because you have just travel about 40 mile in — hopefully — around eight minute . whether it be support local business to thrive , improve public transport , keep our community safe , improve people ’s right at work or help young people to fulfil their potential , i will do all i can for the people of clwyd east , and i will work tirelessly to repay the trust that they have place in i .