unlike the hon . gentleman , i be at the launch of the say report and have read it . he will be aware that , for example , one reason for the complication be that the number of people work from home have increase by 40 % . we have a plan to tackle that with the record investment that be be make to mayors . he talk about franchising , but it be also the case , without a shadow of a doubt , that he do not have a plan to finance it , particularly for rural local authority . what be the case be that , when labour organisation be challenge on this , they struggle to find out how they will deal with the funding . the truth be that there be no plan and they be not put forward any funding . individual people who attend that event be genuinely in shock at the shadow secretary of state ’s suggestion that labour be go to do this , but be unsure about how it would fund it . with great respect to the hon . lady , she know full well that her council attempt to have an active travel scheme in jesmond , and it so mess it up that it have to scrap the scheme . the ltn be scrap , and there be 23,000 objection and a considerable waste of money . with due respect , active travel be do a great job , and we support it , but council have to take local community with they . the chair of the pac be entirely right , although in the mod context , if it be groundhog day , " groundhog " sound like a vehicle that have slip to the right . more recently , after a detailed inquiry , the defence committee , on which i serve , publish a damn report on 4 february 2024 , entitle simply " ready for war ? " . i have serve on the committee since 2017 and this be one of the punchy report we have ever produce . in answer to the question in the title , the all - party committee , which include six former mod ministers , conclude : " despite the united kingdom spending approximately £ 50 billion a year on defence ( plus more for ukraine ) the uk ’s armed forces require sustained ongoing investment to be able to fight a sustained , high - intensity war , alongside our ally , against a peer adversary . " in plainer english , and as the subsequent detail in the report starkly point out , despite a considerable outlay of taxpayer ’s cash , we could not fight a sustained war with putin ’s russia for more than a couple of month before we run out of ammunition and fighting equipment , not least as we have very few tank , ship or combat aircraft in reserve . the full report can be find online . give that it take year to build a modern warship — a totally ridiculous 11 year in the case of the new type 26 frigate — and four year to build a typhoon fighter , if we have to fight what the strategist sometimes describe as a " come as you be war " , one with little further warning , we would have to rely on whatever equipment we have to hand or could rapidly remobilise . we simply do not have enough war - win kit to win as it be . as the public accounts committee ’s report on the 10 - year equipment plan illustrate starkly , the difference between what the mod aspire to buy and the funding it be likely to have available be £ 17 billion . however , it be bad because the three service account for the plan on a different basis . without go into all the technicality , an apple and apple comparison across the three service show that the gap be £ 29 billion . even beyond gap in capability of our kit , our great weakness be now the lack of skilled personnel to operate and maintain the equipment that we do have . without they — and far too many of they be leave , as the chair of the defence committee say — even multi - billion dollar aircraft system simply remain in the hangar . one perfect example of how dysfunctional the mod have now become in relation to people be the saga of capita — or , forgive i , " crapita " , as it be now affectionally know to the defence committee . it have totally mess up the recruitment system for the british army . a few year ago , its share price top £ 4 ; today , it be barely 13 penny . everyone in defence know that the outsourced contract have be a disaster , yet absolutely no one in the upper echelon of the department have the moral courage to sack the company . the defence secretary recently describe the situation in the times as " ludicrous " . he be absolutely right . indeed , no doubt he have make a note of his own comment on his own famous spreadsheet , but still nothing actually happen . capita limp on as the army bleed out — with , in some part of the army , three soldier now leave for every one that capita somehow , painfully , manage to recruit . if we think we be go to deter the like of vladimir putin in this manner , we be live on a different planet , in a parallel universe , in a fantasy dimension . give that we now spend the thick end of £ 50 billion a year on defence , the british taxpaye public be quite entitle to ask why so little of our defence capability work properly . why be some of the army ’s fight vehicle 60 year old ? why do we have hardly any battle tank that actually work ? why do we have hardly any submarine that be now regularly put to sea ? why do we have aircraft carrier that perennially break down whenever they try to leave port ? bluntly , it be because we now have a ministry of defence that have become in recent year a gigantic , sclerotic bureaucracy ; constantly hidebound by needless , self - generate red tape ; obsess with process rather than outcome ; in which some senior civil servant be now more interested in wokery than weaponry , endlessly rip off by some of their own major contractor , such as boeing , to name but one ; and in which key element of our fighting equipment be so old — and the procurement system for replace they so broken — that we now can not fight a major war with russia for more than a few week , as it well know . moreover , as the red book clearly show in table 2.1 and 2.2 , we be cut the core uk defence budget next year by £ 2.5 billion and play " smoke and mirror " with the donation to ukraine and with address an overspend on the nuclear enterprise from the treasury reserve in order to pretend otherwise . this act of what the russians call " maskirovka " , or strategic deception , be wholly unworthy of a conservative government . if member happen to believe , as i do , that the role of our armed force be determinedly to save life by convince any potential aggressor that , be they to attack we , we would defeat they , then we be palpably fail . this be not an intellectual parlour game . ultimately , this be about whether our grandchild be go to grow up in someone else ’s re - education camp , but we might not know that if we walk into the current mod . we can try to blame the military , for instance , for so frequently over - specify new military equipment , such as ajax , that it enter service many year late , but in the end the responsibility lie with the politician who , theoretically at least , be suppose to be in charge . the romans have a famous saying about military matter : " si vis pacem , para bellum”—he who desire peace save - line3should prepare for war . give that the secretary of state , the man who run the department , have tell we that we be in a pre - war world , surely we have well start prepare for it , if we be to have any chance whatsoever of prevent it , and we should now do that in earnest , before it be too late . i agree with every word my right hon . friend , the former eminent chairman of the defence committee , just say . my one caveat be that the mod ’s excuse for these capability gap be that we can rely on ally to fight with we . but they will be rely on we , and if we be unable to support they or they be on wartime task elsewhere , thing might go horribly wrong . i say all of this not just as someone who serve proudly as a territorial army infantry officer in my local royal anglian regiment during the cold war ; not just as someone who be still very proud to carry the late queen ’s commission ; not just as a former veteran and then armed forces minister in the ministry of defence , albeit almost a decade ago ; but most of all , as i say at prime minister ’s question last week , as the devoted son of a d - day veteran . stoker 1st class reginal francois die when i be 40 year of age . he tell i one night of the carnage — his word — that he witness that day , albeit from offshore , on a minesweeper name hms bressay . in the afternoon , they be opposite omaha beach . let i quote shakespeare ’s famous phrase : " this story shall the good man teach his son . " my father be a good man . the story that he tell i be of a country that eventually , reluctantly , have to go to war against the evil of nazi tyranny because for year its politician have be so parsimonious — he actually say " tight”—and so naive that when nazism emerge , we completely fail to deter it . that be the lesson of the 1930 , but it be also his lesson to i . my father make i take a solemn vow that , as his son , i would never take live in a free country for grant , because , as he say , too many good man have die to achieve it . two year after we have that conversation , he be dead . that be why i be here this afternoon . that be why i come into politic in the first place . as a wartime serviceman , my father be a great admirer of winston churchill , our great ever prime minister , who lead this country through a war of national survival and then lose a general election for his trouble . when i walk into the chamber early this afternoon , i could still see the damage cause when the chamber be bomb in 1941 . churchill insist that it not be repair , lest we forget , and he be right . in summary , i may not be my father ’s contemporary , that famously courageous mp , leo amery , so i can not claim to " speak for england " on this matter , but i be elect to speak for the people of rayleigh and wickford , and so , on their behalf , i issue this stark warning today . the sky be darken . brutal dictator with powerful weapon at their disposal be on the rise . the democracy be on the backfoot rather than the front . history tell we time and again , and indeed ad nauseam , that the appeasement of dictator — be they call adolf hitler or vladimir putin — do not work . we should be increase the defence budget to at least 3 % of gdp — what my right hon . friend the member for new forest east ( sir julian lewis ) use to call " at least three to keep we free”—not cut it , as we now be , and pretend that we be not . the first duty of government , above all other , be the defence of the realm , and we forget that at our peril . si vis pacem , para bellum .