i believe it be customary in a maiden speech for the member to pay tribute to their predecessor , which i be very happy to do . giles watling be a very decent , nice , honourable man . he be former actor who wear his garrick club tie . there be nothing even vaguely conservative about he , but he be a jolly nice chap , and it be a clean - fought campaign . early , the right hon . member for south holland and the deepings ( sir john hayes ) make reference to clacton as be the place for a traditional english seaside holiday , and indeed it be , with its pier , mile of sandy beach and arcade . perhaps it be not a holiday destination that be as popular as it use to be , now that people go to spain and elsewhere , but it be still there . other part of the constituency be genteel and quite wealthy , but if we go to jaywick we find the most deprived community in the whole united kingdom . those community have little faith , trust or belief that government can make their life well . indeed , what i find , when knock on door , be that people be say , " we want to work — we want to get on and make money — but as soon as we work 16 hour a week or more , our benefit get take away , so we ’re well off stay on benefit . " i feel immensely sorry for those people , because the benefit system , which be design to help they , be actually keep they trap in level of relative poverty . i will do my good as the mp for the area to bring business investment — private money — into the constituency , with job , training and skill . i can not promise that i will do it , but i will do my absolute damnedest to make it happen . it be funny , because i spend nearly 21 year as a member of the european parliament , in brussels and with its monthly journey to strasbourg . i have to say that this place be very different indeed . it be small . there be not a chauffeur - drive mercedes available for each member . there be no large lump sum of money that member do not have to spend on anything or show receipt for . i wonder whether that be why so many in the british political system seem to adore the european union so much , because it be a rather wonderful place to work . what i do not expect be to come here and find that i , with my reform team , be more outnumber here than we be in the european parliament , because there be more supporter of brexit in the european parliament than i sense there be in this parliament of 2024 . this be very much a remainer ' parliament . i suspect , in many case , that it be really a rejoiner ' parliament . if we look at the king ’s speech , it be interesting that the word " immigration " be mention only twice and " asylum " just once . perhaps that be not a surprise , as when the now prime minister lay out the six big priority for the labour party before the general election , he do not mention legal or illegal immigration . that be the other area in which the five of we sit on the reform bench will find ourselves massively outnumber in the house , because we actually want to talk about these issue . i believe that the population explosion be have a big impact on the quality of life of ordinary folk than any other issue . it all start , of course , when the current home secretary become a member of parliament back in may 1997 . it be worth remind ourselves that net migration be the same during the late 1940 , the whole of the 1950 , the whole of the 1960 , the whole of the 1970 , the whole of the 1980 and in the 1990 , up until mr blair . net migration run at 30,000 to 50,000 a year for over half a century . then mr blair get in and decide that we be go to open the door in a way that have never be do before , to the delight and joy of big company , especially giant multinational , who have always want as much cheap labour as they can get , and to hell with the consequence for working - class family and people . perhaps it be even more of a surprise to see that massive acceleration in our population through immigration then far accelerate , because despite promise in four consecutive manifesto , the conservative party actually accelerate what have happen under the year of mr blair , so we have see a population increase of 10 million people since the time that labour win its last landslide . even the net figure be a migrant a minute . even during the course of this debate , many hundred more people will have come to our country . nobody be make the argument that there be not some exceptionally wonderful people among they — there be , of course — but the sheer level of population mean we have to build a new house every two minute . even if the labour government be able to fulfil the 1.5 million house that they want to build during the lifetime of this parliament , that will make no dent at all in the current shortage of housing . rent have rise by 25 % since 2021 . why ? population increase and pressure . the list go on , from access to health service to congestion and pressure on infrastructure . the population crisis have the big impact on people ’s life , damage their quality of life , and virtually nobody in this place even want to talk about it . it be on illegal immigration that i really want to make a point . four year ago , i go out into the english channel repeatedly , film dinghy come across the channel , with an average of 16 people per boat . i be describe as be a sad , lonely , desperate figure , always seek attention , and i have no doubt there be some who think that be still the case today .