the investment summit announce a lot of investment for which the conservative government be actually responsible . let we wait and see . the budget be yesterday . business will have to look very carefully at their plan , but i do not expect they to do so in a mere few hour . i be happy to have this debate with the hon . gentleman again in a few week ' time once we have see the impact of the measure that have be announce . there be two specific measure that i want to touch on because they have a particular impact on my constituent . one of they , which have be mention a number of time in this debate , be the removal of agricultural property relief . the country land and business association estimate that that will affect 70,000 business . family farm in particular will feel the impact bad . it be hardly surprising that the president of the national farmers ' union have say : " this budget not only threaten family farm but will also make produce food more expensive … the shameless breaking of those promise on agricultural property relief will snatch away much of the next generation ’s ability to carry on produce british food , plan for the future and shepherd the environment . " this be a measure that the labour party say it would not introduce , but it have break that promise and be now propose to introduce it , with enormous damage not just to farmer but to food security and our environment . the second measure that i would like to touch on—[interruption . ] madam deputy speaker , i see you have acquire speaker ’s cough . i will heed your warning , but i want to mention vat on private school . in my constituency i have three small independent school : heathcote school in danbury , elm green in littleborough and malden court school . the parent who send their child there be not rich ; they make huge sacrifice . in essex we be very fortunate to have really good grammar school . those parent make that sacrifice to help their child hopefully get into the grammar , but they will not be able to continue if there be 20 % increase in fee as a result of the imposition of vat . they will withdraw their child and those school will be threaten with closure . the consequence be that the child will need to be place in state school , which be already under huge pressure . my constituency be grow rapidly , and there be enormous pressure on school . this will simply make it bad . this policy be simply vindictive and will do enormous damage . very quickly , i note that the minister for secondary care , the hon . member for bristol south ( karin smyth ) have come back into the chamber , and she would be disappoint if i do not say that i welcome the hospital building programme in the budget and the announcement of new money . however , once again i reiterate that a hospital in my constituency be threaten with closure . we have be promise a new one for 30 year or more , under both my government and the government before that . she be good enough to see my right hon . friend the member for witham ( priti patel ) and i the other day , so that we could make the case . if she do hold this money , i hope that she might be able to direct some of it to my constituency . this budget be one of the bad i have hear in all my time in this place . it will do enormous damage . i be grateful for this opportunity to put that on the record .