i look forward to that opportunity . i have write to the north east mayor ask for engagement on that , and i would be delighted if the hon . lady join i for such a meeting , should it arise . ferryhill station be not just about travel ; it be also about economic regeneration . the station close as part of the beeching cut in 1967 , the same year that the ferryhill mine close — and the same year , as it happen , that i move out of ferryhill to newton aycliffe , about six mile away . it mean that resident lose not just a source of local job , but a mean of travel to new job . it be therefore an imperative that the project , which be recently confirm again by the prime minister , now make urgent progress . like any investment , it will show the community at or near the station — ferryhill , chilton , mainsforth , dean bank , cornforth and bishop middleham — that they be value , while also present increase opportunity for those that be slightly far away , such as spennymoor and tudhoe . one of the tenet of my election in 2019 be the desire to improve access to opportunity for all , and no one be more needing or deserving of opportunity than the resident of what be , and still be , describe as mining village . one cause of mine have be to encourage aspiration , particularly for the young people of sedgefield , and that flow from session with the ambassador of ferryhill primary school , lead by glenys newby , as well as visit to school in hurworth , wheatley hill and everywhere in between . to enable and encourage aspiration , it be critical that we create opportunity . opportunity come from job and career , which be why i be so pleased about the growth of netpark , a science community within two mile of fishburn , a former mining village . close to my mining community be the new town of newton aycliffe , which offer 10,000 job , include at hitachi . it be fundamental for the recovery of the mining community that industry of the future can be sustain , include at hitachi . i be work with everyone from union to the secretary of state , to find a way for those industry to continue admirably inspire their workforce in the future . however , they will help the community most in need only if my mining village can reach they via the bus connection that i mention . if we wish to secure future growth , we must develop new skill . i be enormously encourage by the growth in apprenticeship in the area , where 13,490 have start since 2010 , and by the increase quality of our school , which be help to deliver well educational outcome . over the past 14 year , we have go from 67 % of our school be rat good or outstanding to 91 % today . opportunity be support by education , and i have be delighted to engage not only with school but with the amazing university that support my constituency — most notably durham university . i commend the work be do to reach out to community . i be delighted that fiona hill , the recently appoint chancellor of durham university , hail from bishop auckland , a place with challenge similar to those in my community , so she get it . fiona hill hail from a disadvantaged background but manage to rise to work on the international stage , and have now return to become chancellor of durham university . i support the university ’s " shy bairn get nowt " project , which be an attempt to instil more confidence in our young people so that they speak up and be not only hear but listen to . i have such hope for the former mining community in my area . we need to continue effort to support education and aspiration , and to deliver well transport for those community . despite their challenge , i can see the potential they have to reinvent themselves . however , i can not stress enough just how crucial bus and train service be to that process . i look forward to see the service improve and those amazing community become the place that they deserve to be .