i congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today , include the hon . member for mid leicestershire ( mr bedford ) , who pay a moving tribute at the end of his speech . i thank staff across the parliamentary estate for diligently and patiently look after new member in these first few day . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech , which i do proudly as the member of parliament for my hometown of hartlepool . to represent the place where i grow up , where i meet my wife pamela and where we be raise our young family hold a special kind of responsibility for i . the challenge that hartlepool people face be personal , because they be challenge that i share . when one of our local business close due to spiral cost , there be a good chance that i have visit it in well time . when a local play area be the victim of arson , my child be among those devastate at the loss of a place they enjoy , and when someone tell i that they be live in pain because they can not see an nhs dentist in a town that have be describe as a dental desert , i know how they feel , because i can not get one either . it be these experience that drive i to serve my home - town , and it be hartlepool people who have give i that opportunity . it be now my duty to respond in kind by deliver for they the opportunity that they have be deny for far too long . that be why i welcome this king ’s speech , which prioritise growth in every part of the country , not just those already bless with affluence . hartlepool ’s history be one of innovation and industry . once the bedrock of the british economy as the country ’s third - large port , we build ship that ship the durham coal that power the world . at one point in our history , hartlepool ’s shipyard , such as william gray and company , launch more ship than anywhere else in the world . as a major exporter of steel , we build the bridge , the ship , the railway and the infrastructure that transform not just our economy but economy across the globe . such be hartlepool ’s strategic importance that , along with only two other place on the north - east coast , it be target for bombardment by the german navy during the first world war . in true hartlepool style , we be the only place to fire back , make the heugh gun battery the uk ’s only first world war battlefield . our industrial heritage have not leave we . the expanded metal company , which i have have the pleasure of visit , provide metal mesh for building such as the stephen lawrence centre in lewisham , the young vic theatre and new york ’s new museum , among many other . our world famous , and award - win , cameron brewery be build during hartlepool ’s industrial heyday , but it have survive , grow and adapt to a change economy , and a pint of strongarm be as good today as it be back then . in move the humble address , my hon . friend the member for bootle ( peter dowd ) mention the famous antony gormley statue in his constituency . although there be no antony gormley statue in hartlepool , we be proud to have build the most famous one . whenever i travel up the a1 through the constituency of my hon . friend the member for washington and gateshead south ( mrs hodgson ) and see the magnificent angel of the north , i remember three simple word : " make in hartlepool . " if our history be one of industry , innovation and growth , i must tell the house in all candour that it must also be our future . too often , town such as hartlepool have be leave behind , an afterthought in our national conversation , able only to reminisce about what we once be , not plan for what we can be . this must change , and i believe it will change under this labour government . right now , we be witness a new industrial revolution sweep the world as we shift to a net zero future . whereas our past be in coal and ship , our future be in new nuclear , wave and tidal . the election of this labour government mean that revolution be finally come to our shore , with a national wealth fund invest in job in every part of the country , a proper industrial strategy that forge a real partnership with business , and great british energy , which will make the uk a clean energy superpower . i be determined that hartlepool will play its part in this transformative agenda , once again at the metaphorical coalface of our country ’s prosperity and economic growth . that be nothing less than hartlepool people deserve . they be my inspiration , with their defiance , grit and determination to succeed in the face of challenge . even in the tough of time , we come together , strong , more united and stand up for each other . everywhere in our town , we see courage , community and compassion . i have be privileged to work with brilliant hartlepool people every day to improve our town , from those in our voluntary sector organisation and community group , our faith leader , and those in our school , college and club , include hartlepool united ; my child and i be proud season ticket holder . all of they be work together in the service of our town . hartlepool have produce many lead light across a variety of profession , from iron maiden guitarist janick gers , world boxing champion savannah marshall , fashion designer scott henshall and television presenter jeff stelling , whose repeat and impassioned outburst defend the north - east , its culture , heritage and people from those who would seek to criticise it display all the formidable characteristic of a person raise in hartlepool . the prime minister have rightly talk about put his government back into the service of work people . my unfaltere belief in public service be instill in i from a young age . i want to take a moment to pay tribute to my father , charles brash , a doctor in hartlepool for over 30 year . one of my early memory be of he come home from a night on call — gps do that in those day — have a quick bite to eat , and then head straight back out for his morning surgery . some people still call i " the doctor ’s son " , and i wear it like a badge of honour . his career , spend in the service of other , shape my value , and my belief that only by put people first can we achieve the change we need . i pay tribute to my predecessor , jill mortimer . since her election in 2021 , jill have forge strong relationship in hartlepool , particularly with veteran ' group , which i hope to emulate . public service be never easy , and i thank jill mortimer for her service to hartlepool . i close by return to the idea of opportunity . right now , in 2024 , in one of the rich country in the world , nearly 20 % of hartlepool ’s child live in absolute poverty . nothing could well symbolise the spectre of opportunity deny — the opportunity for a safe and secure upbringing , to fulfil their boundless potential , to get a good job and raise their own family in security and prosperity . so i welcome the announcement by my right hon . friend the secretaries of state for education , and for work and pensions , on develop an ambitious child poverty strategy , because as member know , the record be clear : when labour be in government , child poverty fall . i be privileged to stand in this place , but i will never lose sight of the fact that it be a privilege gift to i by hartlepool people , far too many of whom have be deny opportunity for far too long . hartlepool people have a reputation for , on occasion , elect fighter as oppose to quitter , and i be pleased to tell the house that they have do so again . my duty , my service , be to fight for they every day to secure the bright future that our town deserve .