i thank the hon . member for solihull west and shirley ( dr shastri - hurst ) for his excellent and very emotive maiden speech . i welcome you to your new role , madam deputy speaker . thank you for call i to speak in this important debate . above all , i thank the people of harlow . it be a diverse constituency that include not only harlow but the village of roydon , nazeing , sheering and , follow the recent boundary review , hatfield heath , hatfield broad oak and too many other to name . i thank everybody for give i the incredible opportunity to serve as their member of parliament . the new prime minister use the word " service " throughout the election campaign , and he have use it in this chamber . in fact , the leader of the opposition even use it in his opening remark on the humble address . harlow be a constituency that demand and deserve the utmost service from its member of parliament , and in my direct predecessor , robert halfon , it have an mp who constantly champion and work hard for the constituency . i genuinely thank he for his service . likewise , his predecessor , bill rammell , who be a good friend and a mentor of mine , be still remember fondly on the doorstep by resident he have support . both of they have show how to persevere in the face of obstacle and beat the odd . although my story be far more humble , i hope i can live up to the high expectation that they have both set . i also thank bill ’s predecessor , jerry hayes , who believe in the importance of public scrutiny . finally , i pay tribute to the late stan newens . i get to know stan quite well in his later year , because all our co - operative party meeting be hold at his house . if anyone enjoy a trip back in time through literature , i would recommend a visit . at the end of every co - op meeting , stan would come over to i and whisper into my ear , " you ’ll be an mp one day . " stan , i do not believe it at the time , but it turn out that you be right . my background be one of service . i spend 15 year as a secondary school math teacher , and more recently i work for a charity in harlow call streets2homes , which support homeless people , and for action for family carers , which support unpaid carer , particularly those who be young . a while ago , i have a conversation with the leader of the liberal democrats , the right hon . member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) , about his excellent contribution to the report on young carer . i also pay tribute to razed roof , a wonderful charity of which i be a trustee . it be an inclusive theatre company , and i have to say a big hello to simon . like many member , my experience have shape my politic and my interest in politic , but my priority be also shape by the constituency of harlow . many member will know that harlow be a post - war new town , design by sir frederick gibberd . sir frederick design harlow to be a place of community ; every community have its own shopping area , playground and green space . a local historian describe harlow as be design — excuse i for this , madam deputy speaker — on socialist principle . it be a place where people can see a barbara hepworth or a rodin while just walk down the street . that sense of community be put to the test during the pandemic , when we see dark time not only in this country but across the entire world . i be proud to report to everybody in this house that during those dark time , harlow ’s community step up ; they pass the test . they support the most vulnerable people across our town and community . perhaps that be no surprise , give that our town invent the fibre optic cable , and be the home of harlow college and the birthplace of rupert grint — i have no idea why i put those thing in that order . apparently , harlow have the low density of pub per head of population . that be okay , though , because there be one five minute ' staggering distance from my house . it be the convention to talk about a non - controversial issue in one ’s maiden speech . that be tricky when you find yourself in a room with people with oppose view . i think that i might talk about football , but i be a leeds supporter , and my hon . friend the members for southampton itchen ( darren paffey ) , and for derby north ( catherine atkinson ) , go before i , so i think i shall leave the subject alone , but i be sure this house will join i in congratulate the mighty harlow town on their league cup victory last season — let we not worry about what league it be . instead , i decide to talk about young carer , a subject very close to my heart . as i have say , i be a secondary school math teacher for 15 year . in one school , i have a boy in my form — i shall call he george , but that be not his real name . he be a lovely lad . every friday , it be my job to check that pupil have get their homework planner sign by their parent , so that we know that the pupil be do their homework and record it properly , but george never get his planner sign . anyone who know i as a teacher would say that i be a bit of a softie , so i let it go , but over time , i have to keep he back at break time and lunch time because his planner be not get sign . he never argue . he just turn up , do his five - minute detention and go on his way . it be only at parent ' evening that i find out that both george ’s parent be severely physically disabled , and that george and his sister be young carer . i feel terrible . it be probably that experience that inspire i to become more involved in support young carer . the solution to george ’s issue be really easy . george , like many young carer , do not want to be treat differently . what we do be say , " your sister can sign your planner for you . as long as your sister get it sign , there be no problem . " lo and behold , he get it sign by his sister — he get a detention if he do not . he be happy with that . i be pleased to say that that story be about 10 year old . i think we have progress quite well in our recognition and understanding of young carer . i thank member from across the house , the leader of the liberal democrats and my own prime minister for bring their experience to this house . in a recent school census , 72 % of school say that they do not have any young carer . i can tell members that , from my experience of support young carer , that can not be correct . it be predict that there be more than 10,000 young carer in essex alone . essex county council have identify roughly 3,700 of they , so there be a huge number of young carer whom we have not identify , let alone get the resource in place for . i would like to end my maiden speech on a positive : i ask the house to join i in thank all the young carer i have work with , and all young carer across great britain and northern ireland , for the incredible job that they do . many of they do not even think of themselves as be young carer because it be just what they do — they help a love one — but i want to put it on record that , to i , they be absolute hero .