i be pleased to be able to respond to this vital debate , which in both tone and importance have be one of the good i have hear in my two year in this place . i also add my thank to the right hon . member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) for bring forward the opposition day motion today , because this issue be clearly of concern to many member , and they be right to be concern . the right hon . member be one of many right hon . and hon . member to have make important contribution and speak with great passion on this crucial issue . the hon . member for salford ( rebecca long bailey ) and for carshalton and wallington ( bobby dean ) , my hon . friend the member for hertford and stortford ( josh dean ) , the hon . member for harpenden and berkhamsted ( victoria collins ) , my hon . friend the members for wirral west ( matthew patrick ) , for harlow ( chris vince ) and for paisley and renfrewshire south ( johanna baxter ) , the hon . member for stratford - on - avon ( manuela perteghella ) and for maidenhead ( mr reynolds ) and other rightly speak about the important role that million of family carer play in provide support for disabled or elderly relative who need care at home . i echo those comment and add my own tribute to all family carer . much of their tireless work go unseen and unrecognised . like other member , i be privileged to witness glimpse of carer ' dedication through my correspondence and through event i attend in my constituency . run through today ’s debate be an underlying and understandable anger at the position we inherit from the last government , whereby family carer try to do the right thing have be leave with staggering overpayment , often run into thousand of pound . as my hon . friend the member for birkenhead ( alison mcgovern ) set out early , we be make sure that we understand precisely what have go wrong so that we can put the system right for the long term . our family carer deserve no less . many member , include the hon . member for eastleigh ( liz jarvis ) and for north east fife ( wendy chamberlain ) , my hon . friend the members for shipley ( anna dixon ) and for bexleyheath and crayford ( daniel francis ) and the hon . member for caithness , sutherland and easter ross ( jamie stone ) , and of course my hon . friend the member for city of durham ( mary kelly foy ) and the right hon . member for kingston and surbiton , speak about their own experience as carer or the work they do locally to support organisation help family carer . i grow up watch my grandmother care for my grandad , struggle with parkinson ’s disease , before later see my mum , one of the many hidden carer up and down the land , care for her mother — my nana — in her final year battle alzheimer ’s disease . none of we in this house be blind to the work that carer do . they be fortunate to have some wonderful advocate . those include their mp , as we have see today , but also organisation such as carers uk , the carers trust and the learning and work institute , to name but three . the minister for social security and disability , my right hon . friend the member for east ham ( sir stephen timms ) , and i have already meet a delegation of carer and carers uk , and he will be do so again shortly . he will also meet separately with the carers trust and the learning and work institute , because we be determined to ensure that the voice of family carer and the organisation support they be at the heart of everything we do . i also want to pay tribute to the hundred of dwp staff , largely base in the north - west , who provide financial support to a million family carer through carer ’s allowance , day in , day out . the government will spend record amount to support unpaid carer . real - term expenditure on carer ’s allowance be forecast to rise from £ 4.2 billion in 2024 - 25 to just over £ 4.7 billion a year by 2028 - 29 . i turn to some of the other point raise during the debate , with apology that time will permit i to address only some of they . let i take the opportunity to congratulate and pay tribute to my hon . friend the members for clwyd north ( gill german ) and for weston - super - mare ( dan aldridge ) and the hon . member for torbay ( steve darling ) on their excellent maiden speech . they paint vivid picture of their constituency and i feel certain that they will go on to make significant contribution in this place . on the wide point , i will begin with the question of the adequacy of carer ’s allowance , set as it be at £ 151 per week . carer ’s allowance will be increase in april 2025 by the consumer price index to help ensure that it maintain its value . as well as carer ’s allowance , carer in low - income household can claim income - relate benefit such as universal credit and pension credit . those can be pay to carer at a high rate than to those without care responsibility through the carer element and the additional amount for carer respectively . for example , over 750,000 carer household on universal credit can already receive an additional £ 2,400 a year through the carer element . that say , the house should be aware that issue beyond the scope of the independent review announce today be not be ignore ; this be merely a first step towards progress . the government be also look at the broad question of how to provide the good possible support for family carer , although i do not want to pre - empt that work today . let i turn to the question of a taper , which be raise by a number of right hon . and hon . member . at the moment , introduce a taper in carer ’s allowance would significantly complicate the benefit , with award have to be adjust manually on a weekly basis for some of those declare earning . that would add to administrative cost and could mean more fraud and error . those also receive universal credit would need to have that adjust if their payment of carer ’s allowance change because of an earning taper rate . a taper could be introduce only follow significant change to the it system that support payment of carer ’s allowance . for the moment , therefore , it be not possible . on the potential writing off of overpayment , which be at the heart of many of the excellent contribution that we hear , an overpayment can occur through fraud , or through claimant or official error . the secretary of state have an obligation to protect public fund and ensure that , wherever possible , overpayment be recover , but determine what good we can do to support those who have accrue overpayment be within the scope of the independent review , as be how such overpayment occur and what we can do to ensure that we take all the step we can to reduce the risk of such incident happen again . let i turn briefly to the comment of the shadow secretary of state , the right hon . member for central devon ( mel stride ) . he list the many intervention that the last government supposedly make to improve the lot of carer — seemingly include the private member ’s bill of the hon . member for north east fife — but after 14 year of conservative government , we see carer who find themselves in heartbreaking situation have rack up huge overpayment . however , the right hon . gentleman correctly set out the incredibly complex nature of the carer ’s allowance system , with allowance for legitimate expense , pension contribution and so on , and why resolve this matter be therefore not straightforward . that be why the independent review be the correct mechanism and next step to fully understand what go wrong and why , and how we can put thing right . i welcome his support for the review . many colleague refer to the role that family carer play in ease pressure on the social care system , and indeed in support our economy , and they be entirely right to do so . i acknowledge everything that carer do . they be hero . we appreciate how much society rely on unpaid carer , we recognise the challenge they face and we understand the need for change . support carer be both a moral and an economic imperative , so we will help carer stay in pay work , we be spend record amount on carer ’s allowance and we will sort out the overpayment scandal we inherit . that be why we have announce the independent review today : so that , together , we can rebuild the trust that have be lose and ensure that those who offer comfort , dignity and support to the one they love be give all the help they need in return . i hope right hon . and hon . member will acknowledge that work today by support the government amendment . question put ( standing order no . 31(2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the question .