let i begin by express thank to all those who have contribute to this debate so far — i be sure that there will be many more after i — and to the hon . and learn member for north antrim ( jim allister ) . he have set out his view to the house with the same ardour as he do a fortnight ago , although at great length than he be allow to in westminster hall , and he make his case during his time in stormont as well . it be important to restate to he what my right hon . friend the secretary of state for northern ireland say to this house a fortnight ago , which be that the government want northern ireland to prosper and flourish as an important part of the union . on that , many of we will find agreement . we be here to do what be good for the people of northern ireland . i also reiterate the government ’s commitment to both the windsor framework and to the uk internal market . it be on that point that the secretary of state respectfully disagree with the hon . and learn member for north antrim in this house a fortnight ago . i will set out the government ’s objection to this bill , which be not compatible with international law , do not account for northern ireland ’s unique circumstance , and would take away power that be give to the northern ireland assembly to make decision about northern ireland . it would result in a regulatory black hole that would be very bad for business , job , growth , the northern ireland economy and the rest of the united kingdom . i will start by outline some of the good news for the northern ireland economy — news that show what the windsor framework , the prospect of stability , the executive return , and the stability of a new labour government be do for the economic outlook in northern ireland . the northern ireland composite economic index indicate that economic output increase by 0.4 % over the quarter to june 2024 and by 2.3 % over the year . ulster university ’s economic policy centre show that northern ireland have a forecast growth rate of 1.4 % in 2024 and 1.7 % in 2025 . the region ’s economy be perform well than be expect at the start of the year . this have be drive by strong growth in employment , particularly in the transport , construction and health sector . the northern ireland statistics and research agency ’s interdepartmental business register show that the number of business register for vat or pay - as - you - earn operating in northern ireland in 2022 be estimate to have rise by 1,550 since 2021 to 77,640 , and be continue to increase . i could go on and on ; i have a long list of the good news story for northern ireland . the economy be work , but all the business i speak to talk about the need for stability , and the underlying premise of this bill would change that stability . we would go into uncertainty and chaos , which would not be good for the northern ireland economy .