i commend my hon . friend the member for reigate ( rebecca paul ) for secure this important debate . i understand more than most the issue with property service charge , because i be a leaseholder where i live in hoddesdon . a quarter of my constituent live in flat or maisonette , and 25 % of property transaction in broxbourne last year involve leasehold property , but shockingly , as we have hear , it be hard to find any leaseholder who have a good word to say about their landlord or their service charge . landlord and solicitor do not provide enough information to new resident , and far too often prospective resident be not properly inform before they move in about how much service charge have increase in previous year . they be then hit with huge rise down the line . it be also unclear where the money be go . a resident in waltham cross tell i : " the service charge have skyrocket from around £ 800 to £ 6,000 for each leaseholder , yet live condition remain extremely dire . resident here face ongoing issue include trespasser , mould , broken security door , mice infestation and squatter . our building also have several defect , include weak floor , fire safety issue , and ongoing leakage . at one point my flat become uninhabitable after a severe leak that take month to resolve " . i hear these story again and again from constituent who come to i as the contact of last resort after month and sometimes year of neglect to their property . in that case i meet the management company involve , rmg , early this year , but nothing have change . whether it be rmg , firstport , bamptons , en8 homes or warwick estates , leaseholder deserve well from their landlord and management company , who focus purely on collect ever high charge for bad service . however , by far the bad treatment of leaseholder in my constituency have be at the hand of — i hope the minister be listen to this point — labour - run enfield council . i be first contact by resident on the whitefield estate in may last year , and what i hear leave i outraged . completely out of the blue , enfield council be demand up to £ 50,000 from each leaseholder for " urgent " repair . roof that have never have a leak be earmark to be replace , and window would be fix , even though they have be use for year without issue . understandably , my resident immediately ask , " what about my service charge ? " well , as the leasehold advisory service say , many landlord collect money out of the service charge for a sink fund , to help cover the cost of exactly these kind of major work . but not enfield council . no , it expect my constituent to stump up all the cash , even after raise the service charge that year and , as far as the resident be concern , have not spend a single penny on the estate in decade . the whitefield estate tenant association , and in particular leaseholder nicky mccabe , have work incredibly hard to bring the community together in response to this issue . they simply demand straightforward answer to straightforward question , but they be meet with confusing statement from enfield council representative , who find it far too easy to say , " that ’ not my job . " i attend the meeting . there be a number of director from enfield council there , all of whom earn significant sum of money , and they could not answer basic question from my constituent about how much they would have to pay , and what be go to change on the estate . the communication be shocking . my constituent ' fight be still ongoing , and they have my full support .