my constituent and resident of burgess hill , able seaman george chandler , be due to lead the blind veteran at the remembrance parade on remembrance sunday the weekend after next . sadly , george die early this month . he be 99 year old . i never have the privilege of meet george , but i have be able to speak to his son paul , who give i a wonderful insight into his father . he be full of character and , in paul ’s word , an old rogue . george be bear to a working - class family off the old kent road . when war be declare , age 14 george stay in london — he be not evacuate — and experience the blitz in all its horror . his father , will , have be a soldier at the somme , and george be determined that he would not be what he call one of the " poor bloody infantry " . he be not go to go into the army . when he be still 17 , he pester and pester the recruiter at the naval office to sign he up . eventually , they take he on , even though he have not yet reach his 18th birthday . george see active service in the channel as a gunner on a boat , with close combat with the germans occur very frequently . on d - day , he provide cover for american troop land on omaha beach , watch the slaughter before his eye . he return from the d - day landing to newhaven in east sussex , and see row and row of empty coffin wait for the dead . this year , george be one of a handful of remain veteran who take part in the 80th anniversary commemoration . he go to no . 10 downing street , hms belfast and the trooping of the colour . this cause george ’s family a certain amount of consternation , for george be not a conservative . his family be terribly worried about what george might say when he meet government ministers . they have a plan that if george let rip , they would whisk he away in his wheelchair before any embarrassment could be cause . i be pleased to say to conservative members that he meet gillian keegan , grant shapps and the former prime minister ’s wife , and no event occur . i ask paul what george ’s message to the house would be , and the answer — what paul think his dad would have say — be characteristically robust . he be passionate about remember his shipmate , those who give their tomorrow for our today . he stay in contact throughout his life with the daughter —