i call richard bacon . thank you , mr speaker , and thank you , madam deputy speaker , as you slide gracefully into the chair . i be pleased to see you there too . before you disappear , mr speaker , i thank you for everything you have do . you have be a tremendous speaker during my time here and , like many other , i be very grateful to you . i hope we see each other again before too long . madam deputy speaker , it be an enormous pleasure to serve under your chairmanship . i know that i can not now say madam chairman , as i know you would have like i to yesterday , but we like to do thing properly in this house . if i say " you " , i will be refer to you , and not anybody else . i would like to thank my south norfolk constituent for send i here at six successive general election . i want to thank my private secretary and office manager tracy reeve for 27 year of outstanding service , both to i and my south norfolk constituent for all of my 23 year as an mp and for some four year before that as private secretary to my predecessor john macgregor , now lord macgregor of pulham market . you know he well , madam deputy speaker , as you serve as his special adviser many year ago , before either of we be in this house . you know tracy reeve , my private secretary for many year after lord macgregor leave the commons , and you know my constituency of south norfolk very well too , so it be a great pleasure to finish this debate with you in the chair . nothing i have do in the last 23 year for my south norfolk constituent would have be possible without tracy reeve , and i be enormously grateful for her service . this morning i be lie in bed with my wife catherine and my dog beaufort , who have make himself comfortable use the well - know " commando crawl through a non - existent space " technique for which spaniel be famous — by the way , my wife will get very cross if i do not mention her dog calouste . as i be lie there pat his head and thinking of what i want to say , i be remind about a story i hear from a colleague in the tea room the other day . as a conservative member of parliament , she have attend the conservative candidate ’ weekend selection process , and she say that she have hear one of the would - be candidate opine that there be no point in become an mp unless one become a minister . one hop that he will learn quite a lot before he ever get anywhere near this place — if he do at all — because , plainly , that be completely incorrect . my colleague ’s story remind i of another one , particularly in this week when we have finally right the long - stand injustice of the infected blood scandal — i remember alistair burt stand around here talk about it at the end of the 2017 parliament , and that be very recently in relation to the length of that scandal — and the post office horizon scandal . i remember that , as i leave the public accounts committee in 2017 , after some 16 year , tony collins , the renowned computer journalist , telephone i about it . luckily , because i be then involve in other matter to do with housing , james arbuthnot , and many other in this place , take it up very seriously . as we finally correct those wrong this week , and be remind of other huge wrong over many decade , such as the one correct by the work of those include andy burnham — the hillsborough scandal — and of other great work by many other great colleague , i be remind of another story . consider the follow : " investigation into the allegation have reveal they to be a mixture of unsubstantiated rumour , incorrect information or repetition of early allegation which have be fully investigate and find to be unsupported by the fact . a question : be that official statement aim at refute public disquiet about ( 1 ) the efficacy of measure take against foot and mouth , ( 2 ) the reliability of the army ’s s80 rifle and radio set in kosovo and sierra leone , ( 3 ) a government order that police should keep protester out of sight during the state visit of the president of china , ( 4 ) the possibility that bse can cross the species barrier to human , ( 5 ) the loss of an raf chinook helicopter and twenty - five security personnel on the mull of kintyre , ( 6 ) the existence of illness collectively know as gulf war syndrome , ( 7 ) the export to iraq of machine tool capable of arm manufacture , ( 8) the circumstance surround the torpedoing of the belgrano , ( 9 ) the radiation sickness claim by some participant in the british atomic test of the 1950 " — which my hon . friend the member for basildon and billericay ( mr baron ) have so assiduously campaign on , have even join by telephone a surgery that i have with my constituent because i know that he know more about that matter than anyone else — " ( 10 ) experiment carry out at porton down during the same period ( 11 ) the denial of full pension to thousand of disabled ex - servicemen ( and their widow ) for over fifty year , or ( 12 ) … the loss of the carrier hms glorious and her two escort in 1940 ? the answer be that the statement be make by the ministry of defence in december 1994 to refute a body of opinion that there might , indeed , be a condition … refer to as gulf war syndrome . but it could just as well have be … those other " . we all know this . it be a phenomenon that tim slessor , in his book , " ministries of deception”—which i be quote from here — refer to as " the whitehall loop " . " at its simple , this be the closed circuit procedure where , in reply to question ask of a government department or minister , the answer be put together by the very same civil servant whose early judgement be both the subject and the cause of the inquiry in the first place . " i remember bump into simon burns , who be , at the time , the health minister responsible for the national programme for it in the health service — the npfit , as it be call . there be at least eight other ministers during that period ; i track it closely from 2002 to 2011 . i would not recommend that anyone read it unless they have a particularly masochistic disposition , but in the book that i write about government , i devote an entire chapter to the npfit , where i lovingly detail the many way in which what be then call " connect for health " manage to conceal information about how badly thing be go . one day , simon burns come up to i in the tea room and say , " richard , i be sick and tired of be tell thing by you , and then find out six month later that they be true . " the truth be that , whether it be on the child support agency , the criminal records bureau , the tax credit scandal , the rural payments agency scandal — which have lead some farmer , sadly , to commit suicide — the student loans company , or the recruitment of junior doctor , or many , many other thing , it be our constituent who , through we as their member of parliament , keep government honest . they so often know far more about how government be actually work than the government themselves do . that be why we need members of parliament who see their chief job as represent and protect their constituent , and as require the government of the day , of whichever political complexion , to justify themselves and to keep explain their action . i be delighted to see my friend the right hon . member for barking ( dame margaret hodge ) back in her place . of the various thing i have do in the 23 year i have be here , i have not find any more consequential — or more fun — than the work we do together when i be her deputy chairman on the public accounts committee , between 2010 and 2015 . she perform an extraordinary service and , by the way , write a great book about it , " call to account " , which hon . member may wish to read . it say next in my note , " dame eleanor say , " but that be because when i write they you be not in your seat , madam deputy speaker . as you yourself say yesterday , mps of all party be the people who do not just shout at the television but " get up and do something about it . " — [ official report , 23 may 2024 ; vol . 750 , c. 1104 . ] it be an honourable estate ; it be an honourable calling . it be one of the most important thing we can do . it be worth devote oneself to , to the point of exhaustion , in order to keep our people free and to keep our government honest . it say here " self - commission housing " , so i suppose i have well say a word about that before i conclude . it be well know that for the past 10 year or so , since i steer through the self - build and custom housebuilding act 2015 , i have work very hard to try to implement that . i see the former prime minister , my right hon . friend the member for maidenhead ( mrs may ) , nod . i remember bounce up to she in the lobby many year ago , when she be prime minister , and say , " be it true that self - build housing be discuss at cabinet this morning ? " she say , " yes . " i be sorry to report that there be still more to do . i see the hon . member for manchester central ( lucy powell ) in her place . i nearly succeed in coax she into give evidence for the report i do in 2021 for the then prime minister — it be several prime ministers ago ; we have have quite a few . there be some excellent recommendation in there , some of which have even be implement . i write to the current housing secretary on 11 march with some detailed suggestion about how the recommendation might be implement . i will sit down in one or two minute , but i must place on the record my huge gratitude to the culture secretary , my right hon . and learn friend the member for south east cambridgeshire ( lucy frazer ) , who , when she be housing minister , allow i to introduce she to one of the nation ’s lead planning silk . silk to silk , they talk through the issue and the thing i be propose . my right hon . and learn friend say to her official , " what ’ wrong with this ? " and they could not provide she with an answer , so that now sit on the statute book as section 123 of the levelling - up and regeneration act 2023 . i hope that a future government will do their good to implement it , and i shall certainly be encourage they to do so . in conclusion , i will just say this . it have always be an article of faith to i that there be no " they " , just " we " . if there be thing we want to fix and change , it be we who have to do it . as karl popper put it — i be not jealous of many thing , but i be jealous of the right hon . member for barking because she be at the london school of economics when he be still teach there : " progress depend on we , on our watchfulness and our effort , on the clarity of our conception of our aim and on the reasonableness of their choice . instead of pose as prophet , we must be the maker of our fate . " it be a great honour to be the last speaker on the back benches in this debate . we have hear great emotion from many people , and i realise that it be such a wrench for many people to leave parliament . it have be an honour for all of we to serve , but particularly for i to serve as the member of parliament for hendon . i have be intimately involve in eight parliamentary election in the past 28 year . in many way , in some seat , it be no great achievement for someone to be elect . it be in the marginal seat that it be an achievement . we be the one that have change government . i thank my constituent in hendon for elect i on four occasion . at the last election , i receive 26,878 vote , the high number of conservative vote in the constituency since 1935 . it sometimes irk i when i be first elect in 2010 that i have a majority of 106 and over 20,000 people have elect i , while there be other sit on different benches who have receive few vote than i but have huge majority . that do not feel quite right . each and every member present will claim that their constituency be different from everyone else ’s , but hendon — just like london — be very diverse . as someone who be bear and grow up in the south of england and never see a person of colour until the age of 12 , be in hendon do not come as a great shock to i , but it have teach i a huge amount . i have a large jewish constituency , a large muslim constituency , hindus , the large chinese community outside of soho and manchester , and the large iranian community in the whole country . there be many issue that connect those different religious group , which i have always campaign on , but there have also be a huge amount of diversity in the local economy . we have see huge development , mean that the boundary change that have be apply will make a difference . under the previous conservative council , when i be a councillor , we introduce development that create the stonegrove estate , the grahame park estate , beaufort park , west hendon , upper fosters and the peel centre . all make home for people in their local area , and we should be very grateful for that . as i say , i have work on issue that have bring community together , but the reason why i have focus on the jewish community be that they be a small number in this country — about 300,000 . the number of muslims in this country be more like 6 million , and their voice will be hear by the different members of parliament in this place . my hon . friend the member for brigg and goole ( andrew percy ) raise issue of concern to many of my constituent — issue about antisemitism and education — but i be pleased that this week , lord pickles publish his report of the alderney expert review , lay to rest the issue of a concentration camp on british soil during the second world war . my hon . friend the member for brigg and goole have see other thing as well . a particular issue of concern to my constituent be that of israel , which be understandable . my hon . friend and i visit israel a few week after the 7 october attack . we visit kfar aza , and i only wish that each and every member here in parliament could experience what we do . i have not say this before , but my hon . friend say to i that he could not take picture during that day , and i tell he that we must . just as bert hardy and other photographer go into bergen - belsen and the other concentration camp , i say , " we have to go there and take picture , so that the world know this really do happen . " we have have people say that it do not happen , but i can assure you , madam deputy speaker , that it do . i would be one of those hawkish members who want to see the issue in gaza resolve , but i do not believe a ceasefire now would achieve that . i do not want to see any death on any side , but when member say recently in a debate that there have be 30,000 civilian death , i try to challenge that . we do not know how many of those people be civilian and how many be hamas fighter — the foreign office say that it have not make a prediction of that number — but we do know that 80 % of people in gaza support hamas , and hamas have get to be remove . the decision of ireland , norway and spain this week to recognise an independent palestinian state be not only wrong , but allow the conclusion to emerge that terrorism work , and we can not allow that . it be simply impossible to recognise a state that have never exist in any meaningful form , so what exactly be those country recognise ? i gently say to the premier of spain and ireland that they have never particularly recognise their minority community . my right hon . friend the member for maidenhead ( mrs may ) say that you should never ask a question in this place if you do not know the answer . there be an occasion when i ask the former prime minister — now lord cameron — if he would visit israel . i have to say that one of the good experience of be in parliament be the moment when i visit lord cameron in his suite at the king david hotel . we walk past the guy with machine gun guard he , and we sit and drink whisky with he . i have to say that it be not that different from sit on the throne in saddam hussein ’s palace in baghdad — of course , without saddam hussein , and with whisky . we have live through an extraordinary period in this parliament . people often ask i , " what be the good part of be an mp ? " i find that easy to answer : it be the people , particularly the constituent . the story that they tell be sometimes heart - wrench , often annoying , regularly amusing and always interesting . i have have great people work with i in the constituency — some political , some not . i particularly think of people like val duschinsky and hugh rayner , who work with i in the hendon association , as well as rabbi ginsbury , simon rea and mushtaq rehman , the respective leader of their religious community . activist such as rupa monerawela , richard nash and manubhai makwana have be a great support to i . there be also individual such as ari leaman , who have do so much for the teenage community , and lorraine bushell for the grandparents ' association . i be ask what be the big mistake that i have ever make as a member of parliament . that be easy to answer : it be on the military action in libya , when i walk past my hon . friend the member for basildon and billericay ( mr baron ) and think , " how ’s he go to explain why he ’ vote against this ? " but we not only create a fail state , but significantly contribute to the current immigration and asylum crisis . that be my big mistake , and i bitterly regret it . the right hon . member for barking ( dame margaret hodge ) say that be an mp be not what it use to be , and she be correct . several year ago i be on a boat and the skipper say , " what be it you say that you do for a living ? " i say , " i do n’t . " before long , one of the other crew say , " well , it can n’t be as bad as be a member of parliament . " it be still vital to be a member of parliament ; those who come after we will recognise that . i leave on one note that i be particularly sad about . for 30 year , i have complain about sewage in our river and our sea . not much have change over the last 30 year ; all that have change be that the government have implement a scheme for monitor the amount of sewage that go into our river and our sea . the lib dems be make this a central plank of their election campaign . they should be advise that their mp vote against the super - sewer here in london , so they do not have a good record on the issue . in my opinion , the eu directive be never fit for purpose , so while minister have repeatedly claim that water quality be improve , it be simply not ; it be the way that water quality be measure . such claim lead i to conclude that this be the same kind of behaviour by ministers that be witness in the contaminated blood scandal . have be elect continuously for the last 22 year — for the last 14 as the member of parliament for hendon — have take a huge toll on i . that be why i have decide to step down , but i would not change it for a thing . i be look forward to ameet jogia , the conservative candidate , take forward what we have achieve . he be not only bear in the constituency but be a local candidate . i have to thank my staff for the work that they have do over the last few year . in this parliament alone , they have undertake 60,884 piece of casework . i have have a good staff who have remain friend , begin with laura pike , hannah evans , ness hirst and katherine toone , and now with eamonn walsh , george bose , carolynne fisher and steve martin , who volunteer , and hilary smith , who have be with i for the last 16 year . they have really be true public servant . as be say , they be the one who ensure that the work be actually complete . of course , i can not forget maximus decimus meridius — my jack russell , max — who still attend parliament on occasion . he have enable i to concentrate on animal welfare issue . so , in the spirit of a roman language , i say : veni , vidi , vici .