thank you , madam deputy speaker . it be great to follow my hon . friend the member for worsley and eccles ( michael wheeler ) . i congratulate everybody who have do their maiden speech today , and this be the first time i have do it — i suppose that be why they be call maiden speech . i be proud to speak here for the first time , especially in this debate , as facility in corby be use by athlete to train for the olympics . kieran reilly , who live in corby , win silver at the bmx freestyle . adrenaline alley be the venue he use in the constituency , a terrific venue that many use . i be delighted to be the member of parliament for the constituency of corby and east northamptonshire . i pay tribute to my predecessor , tom pursglove , who have the honour to represent corby for nine year and become a minister during that time . i know for a fact that he be very proud to serve his constituency , and i always find he extremely constructive and extremely cordial . i know that now , after parliament , he be look at do work with disabled people and get disabled people well access to work . i hope that i will be able to work with he , because i be now chair an all - party parliamentary group on modernise employment . one area we be go to look at be how disabled people can access work , so i hope our path will cross again . i also thank andy sawford , the last labour member of parliament for the constituency , who continue to be a good friend to our constituency . he be somebody i seek wise counsel from , and i be fortunate enough to say that i get that rather cheaply . he run a political consultancy , so if hon . member ever ask he for his opinion , it be go to cost they a lot of money , but whenever i do , i get it for free . thank , andy , for be there for we as we move on . corby and east northamptonshire be a large constituency that i have have many year of deal with . i represent corby ’s postal worker for over a decade , and i can tell you now that a fine group of worker you will never be able to meet . my daughter hannah be marry at the wonderful venue at the stanwick hotel , and my father be for a time a boot and shoe worker in the town of raunds . indeed , raunds have its place in history for fight for fair wage and good pay . next year mark the 120th anniversary of the raunds strike of 1905 , which see worker who make boot for the army march to parliament to demand well pay . the war office agree and set a minimum rate for their job . the case for fair wage and good pay be as relevant today as it be then . work should be the route out of poverty . it should not mean a lifetime trap in it , yet 40 % of child live in corby and east northamptonshire who live in poverty have at least one work parent . we need to reshape the world of work so that it pay , and our economy so that the dignity of a job be always well than no job . in - work poverty should be eradicate and chuck into the dustbin of history . today , we celebrate the new deal for work people be lay before this house . with that , we will have the foundation for a well future for work people . i want to be around to ensure we can do that . other part that make up my constituency include the market town of thrapston , which boast its own livestock market . i be delighted to join thrapston ’s mayor , andy mcgovern , at his recent service to celebrate his term of office . east northamptonshire be also home to the town of oundle . oundle school and prince william school be two of three school in an open education partnership , which i be delighted to be able to support and facilitate , which see independent and state school come together to share their facility and good practice . corby be a town build on steel . back in the day , many travel down from scotland as steelworker , and the steelwork be build . resident be rightly proud of their heritage , which they celebrate each year with a weekend of highland game and many burns supper . it have a proud history and a spirit that have see they rise against any adversity they have face . that be why after fight against the steelwork closure in the 1980 , which see over 10,000 people throw on the dole , they rebuild their town ; they rebuild their community , and they would not be beat . during my time on the campaign trail , one lady whose door i knock on capture that spirit . " i ’ m stand to be your member of parliament at the next election , " i say . " that ’ amazing . my mum would really love to meet you ; can you come back in half an hour because we ’ ve get guest at the minute ? " i say yes , so i go back . it turn out her mum have just stop take treatment for stage 4 cancer and want to live her day . she say to i , " i want you to do two thing . first , always speak up for corby ; we ’re good people , we ’re proud people . the second thing i want you to do be get the no . 50 bus back . " i say , " okay , what ’s the no . 50 bus ? " the no . 50 bus be the direct bus that go from corby to kettering general hospital . " when my husband be in hospital , that be my lifeline to get to see he and i want it back , " she say . i be go to pop round to see her daughter because on 2 november , it be back ; it will take people directly from corby to kettering general . the only thing they can not do be give we the no . 50 back ; it be now the no . 2 because the no . 50 go to peterborough and apparently it will cost money to get the number back , but i think the principle have be establish . i have spend my adult life represent work people , from the start when i take on an apprenticeship with the royal mail and i join my union , the communication workers union . a lot of people talk about their schooling , their university , their training . the cwu be my schooling , my university , my training , and without a shadow of a doubt i would not be here today if it be not for the cwu . the journey here have be somewhat interesting to say the least . it start in the back of a taxi with i and frances o’grady talk about the importance of working- class people enter our politic , because we be on our way to the funeral of jack dromey , a dear friend to this place , this party and our movement . i want to put on record my thank to the tuc for what it do in support i during my time as the candidate . it go from the back of a taxi with frances to drive around corby in a vauxhall with eamonn norton and mark pengelly knock on the door of about 600 labour party member to try to convince they i be the candidate they should all vote for . we do the good we could ; i become the candidate and now i represent that constituency . i know it be not go to be easy to do that , but i be determined to make a difference . there be issue that i want to get involve with and change i want to see . i want to see a difference in the world of work by make sure that work really do pay and be a route out of poverty . i want to make a difference to give a voice to so many family with child with special educational need who be be deny the basic right to education ; every child have the right to education , and have special educational need should not mean that they be deny that fundamental right . the house be go to discuss dignity in die , but there be another aspect to it that i want to talk about . in this country , it be legal to sack a worker on the ground of capability when they have a terminal diagnosis . that be fundamentally wrong ; we need to close that loophole and make sure that the last thing people worry about when they have such a diagnosis be the future of their job . we should not be treat people like that and we need to make the change accordingly . lastly , i want to thank my family for their support . i be a proud father , grandfather , son and brother to a family that have always be strong in value and principle and i thank they all . my mum could not be part of this journey here with i because she die several year ago , but i want to say her name , patricia eileen lilian barron , because now i have say her name they will write it down ; it will be in hansard so no one can erase it and a bit of she will live forever , and i be proud to be able to do that . with much to do to make the change that we need to give people back a future that they can once again look forward to , i for one will do all i can to make it happen . our unity be our strength , our solidarity ; that be how we will get there and i intend to make the most of the time i have in this place .