meur ra — thank you , madam deputy speaker . may i begin by wish his majesty the king a very happy birthday — a sentiment that i be sure be share on both side of the house ? stand here in this house , i be more aware than ever of the incredible privilege that it be to be here on behalf of south east cornwall , a place that i love and be proud to call my home . i do not stand here alone ; rather , i stand with those who come before i , inspire i or support i . i be especially proud to be the first labour mp to represent the area , a wonderful community fill with history , resilience and a deep local pride . it be a love for the area and a steely determination to fight for its good interest that unite my predecessor and i . i pay tribute to sheryll murray for her work to champion public and rescue service and the local fishing industry , and to colin breed , who serve before she . i intend to represent our community by extend a hand to bridge political divide , and by serve with the determination and humility that i have see illuminate the path of all those i most admire in public service . today ’s debate offer i the opportunity to mention in particular some of those woman who teach i that i , too , could stand , include our late friend jo cox , and the formidable harriet harman , both of whom i have have the honour of work with . south east cornwall be a stunningly beautiful rural constituency , define by the natural boundary of the river fowey in the west and the river tamar in the east , ancient moorland to the north , and beautiful cornish coastline to the south , include the unique rame peninsula , perfect for sea swimming , surf and sailing . it be a place alive with history , from restormel castle in lostwithiel , to the historic harbour at polperro , whose wind lane whisper of a history of pirate and smuggler . our economy be a story of resilience , weave from the thread of small business , include in the market garden of the tamar valley , tourism , farming and an inshore fishing fleet that deserve more recognition and support . the market town of liskeard , at the geographical heart of the area , provide important place for people to meet and form new enterprise , such as wildanet . most importantly , it be the perfect place to find a barnecutts pasty — and , unlike other member of this house , i do know how to eat a pasty properly . we look both to the west across cornwall , and to the east beyond the tamar , for many crucial job . the dockyard in devonport be particularly important to the town of saltash and torpoint , where many local resident be employ . torpoint be also home to hms raleigh , which provide exceptional naval training and serve as a deep source of local pride . south east cornwall have a proud cultural heritage , celebrate in long - stand community tradition such as the gorsedh — hold in callington for the first time in 40 year — the black prince parade and the saltash may fair . that heritage be express through the art at stert theatre and art centre , calstock arts , and maker heights . community there be tight - knit , but they be often keep apart geographically by both distance and the lack of transport connection . but do n’t get i start on transport problem in cornwall , madam deputy speaker — you can expect to hear from i again on that topic . there be incredible people across the constituency who go the extra mile , with a community spirit find at saltash pride , in those work at food bank or in care home , and at the core , where i hold my first surgery . it be a place rich in so many way , but there be real challenge : above average rate of child poverty , fragile seasonal employment and house price that be out of reach for many . in my previous work , i have see some of the big problem we face at home and abroad : the trap of extreme poverty that be so difficult to escape , the threat of instability and conflict , and the challenge pose by climate change . i have also see the resolve and determination of people to overcome those same challenge , and i have be strike by how the hard of situation sometimes bring out the very good of we . that spirit can be find in organisation such as the royal national lifeboat institution , which i be so proud to work for , or at local event such as liskeard unlocked , which celebrate the town ’s share value of freedom , safety and solidarity with its twin ukrainian town of kopychyntsi . i know that care for my mother throughout her prolonged and painful death from cancer — something that too many family face — have lead i to this place . without that experience , i would simply not be here . she tell i to find solace in purpose , and i have . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my family give i a bedrock of certainty that anyone , anywhere , can make a positive difference . my grandad , injure in an industrial accident , would have i sit next to he on his green leather sofa after school to watch prime minister ’s question . i have no doubt that he would be shock but proud that i stand now by these green leather benches , which feel so very far away from our life and experience . clearly , child ’s early experience be so formative , and early education be so pivotal — just look at the trouble that early experience have get i into now . i do not want where you be bear to limit where you be go , or what you can do to be determine by who you know . break down the barrier to opportunity be not a campaign slogan for i ; it be a guide principle , and what i intend to deliver for my community . the beauty of our landscape in our special corner of cornwall be not just a backdrop to our life ; it be the backbone of our economy and integral to our identity and wellbeing . i be committed to support our farmer and our fishing industry — the lifeblood of our community . they provide our food security , and they have a critically important relationship with the landscape . i be committed to improve our transport link , which currently hamper growth and divide community , and to secure well access to healthcare service and provision for special educational need and disability in the constituency . i be also committed to preserve the rugged , distinct natural environment that so define our region and bring huge economic value to our vital tourist industry . cornwall help to power britain ’s first industrial revolution , and it now stand ready to lead the new green industrial revolution , harness new technology and the aspiration of our young people to create a sustainable future . south east cornwall be both a gateway to cornwall and a bridge to the rest of the uk , as embody by the tamar bridge . i intend also to be a bridge for our community , and to work tirelessly to connect cornwall with the resource , opportunity and support that it deserve , so i stand here , ultimately , with gratitude for the incredible people of south east cornwall . i see generosity and determination that inspire i daily . that be why i be here , and it be why i be honour to be work to connect our past and our present , and to help build our future together .