boost british export , especially for our small business , be vital to create job and economic growth , and it absolutely must be a strategic priority for the government . this secondary legislation be a welcome step forward , give uk export finance the opportunity to grow its portfolio of project to help deliver for business across the country . this measure will be very important to my constituent , as wokingham be one of the good place in the country to do business , and the government should continue to help unlock our growth potential . we rank 15th of 362 local authority for competitiveness between 2017 and 2021 . the gross value add per fill job vacancy be 23.5 % , which be significantly fast than the rest of berkshire and the south - east . my constituency have great example of where government support programme have deliver success , such as m2 m pharmaceuticals , which win a king ’s award for enterprise this year . tomorrow , i be visit intersurgical , another great success story for wokingham business , which design , manufacture and supply medical device . have grow from seven people in 1982 to upwards of 3,500 employee worldwide , it now export its product globally . however , i be sure it be deeply concerned about the budget ’s impact on maintain its profitability . i look forward to hear from the company what more the government need to do to support its success . there be certainly more that should be do to boost british exporter and improve britain ’s trade policy . to start , the government urgently need to fix our break relation with the eu to foster close co - operation with our large trading partner . we must cut vast swathe of red tape and reduce the trade barrier that hold back our business . for example , the government should urgently negotiate a veterinary and plant health agreement with the eu to reverse the decline in british agrifood export since 2019 . secure bespoke mutual recognition agreement for britain ’s engineer , architect , lawyer and accountant would also help british business across a variety of sector to secure great export opportunity . the trade association i have meet make one thing overtly clear : the impact of brexit be hurt their profit , and we need to fix this mess . on trade , i hope this government do not follow the conservative party ’s approach of negotiate trade deal in desperation , which lead to weak outcome , as we can see from the result . for instance , the conservatives fail to guarantee british standard on animal welfare and environmental protection in agreement such as the australia trade deal , at an especially difficult time for the agriculture sector . even a tory former secretary of state for environment , food and rural affairs describe that agreement as " not actually a very good deal”.—[official report , 14 november 2022 ; vol . 722 , c. 424 . ] parliament never get a proper say on our trade deal , eliminate the opportunity to stop the government barrel ahead with deal that be deeply unpopular . i respect the minister greatly , but there be a lot to get right , and to fix from the previous government . will he meet i and representative from wokingham business , such as xpert , which be struggle to secure uk export finance , to hear what they need from his department ? will he set out to the house the specific form of scrutiny we will get when the government conclude the trade deal ? will his department renegotiate the australia and new zealand trade agreement ?