i associate myself with those comment , mr deputy speaker , and echo the minister ’s comment about the post office ( horizon system ) offence bill . i be pleased to be here tonight to see the final passage of the media bill . it have be 20 year since the last broadcasting law be introduce , and in that time the medium landscape have change dramatically . this bill ensure that our broadcasting sector can continue to thrive with regulation fit for the modern era . the measure in the bill have be through several layer of scrutiny , from the white paper to the pre - legislative inquiry conduct by the culture , media and sport committee . i thank the committee for its work , and i will take this opportunity to say some other thank yous . i thank the range of stakeholder , include those throughout our broadcasting sector , who engage so extensively with the content of the bill . i thank the noble lords , include of course our labour lords team , the civil servant and official , and the ministerial team . i also thank my office , particularly anna clingan . while labour would have add some further measure to future - proof and strengthen the bill , i be pleased to welcome its passage this evening . far to that , i be happy to support the amendment from the other place , which i believe will strengthen the position and purpose of our public service broadcaster . first , it be right that the fundamental reithian principle of public service broadcasting be reinstate , and it be important that educational programming for child and young people have an explicit basis in the bill . labour have speak in detail at every stage of the bill about the importance of child ’s access to public service content , include educational content . as we enter a general election , our medium — be they our public service broadcaster , our commercial radio and television station or our local media outlet , include my local paper , the barnsley chronicle — will play an incredibly important role in hold accountable all of we who stand for public office . our medium and broadcasting sector will , and always do , play a fundamental role in our society and democracy . i be pleased that this legislation , which will secure their future , will enter into statute . as we enter the election period , i send colleague from across the house my very good wish , include , of course , my hon . friend the member for halifax ( holly lynch ) . i especially mention those who be retire , include the deputy speakers : my right hon . friend the member for doncaster central ( dame rosie winterton ) , and the right hon . member for epping forest ( dame eleanor laing ) .