i thank the minister for his generous word . although i accept that i will not be crack open a beer this evening to celebrate the bill ’s pass — perhaps a bottle of corona — this have be an important debate and it have demonstrate consensus across the house , save for the local difficulty of the shadow minister , the hon . member for hamble valley ( paul holmes ) , which we should not go into again . a range of view be express about the energy mix . my view be that we need a mix of energy generation that include all the thing discuss today . i be pleased to hear that the matter will be up for future discussion and i look forward to work on it with the government — particularly on the important point of apply pressure to developer in a way that get the pragmatic outcome that we all deserve . i thank all member for their contribution to the discussion . the debate stand adjourn ( stand order no . 11(2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on friday 11 july . i wholeheartedly agree . there be some incredibly cool alternative to loud firework , and the general public really like they . a yougov survey recently say that drone be more popular than firework in the uk , and we have see some fantastic drone display . there be also low - noise firework , but the general public still do not know quite what they be buy at the moment . i would hazard a guess that not many people would know — until they become as nerdy as i about firework — the difference between an f2 and an f3 firework . we need to enable , encourage and educate responsible member of the public on what they be buy and on the alternative . there be a challenge there for the firework lobby , which need to diversify . there be a hunger among the public and consumer for quieter firework and increase use of technology such as drone . we need to see change now , because the public be behind we — the deputy speaker interrupt the business ( standing order no . 11(2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on friday 25 april .