thank you , madam deputy speaker . i be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . i congratulate my hon . friend the members for ossett and denby dale ( jade botterill ) , for congleton ( mrs russell ) , for buckingham and bletchley ( callum anderson ) and for banbury ( sean woodcock ) on their excellent contribution today — my thank to they all . it be the honour of my life to have be elect as the member of parliament for bangor aberconwy , and i offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who support i on my journey to this place : to my partner and my two kid , who i will not name — because my entry into the world of politic have already cause they enough embarrassment as it be — to my brother mike , my sister pam , my niece and nephew , and all my friend back home ; and to my dad , who be watch from the gallery today , something that would never have be possible be it not for the incredible staff of ysbyty gwynedd , who have save his life on more than one occasion . i want to thank my incredible campaign team , my agent jim hoey and ken stevens . i also pay tribute to the late councillor bill chapman , who be very sorely miss . without his encouragement much early in my career , i would not be here today . bangor aberconwy encompass the former constituency of aberconwy , as well as part of what be arfon and clywd west . i thank all three of my predecessor , and their staff , for all their work in the support of local resident . robin millar serve as the member for aberconwy from 2019 . i know that his work support hotelier during the pandemic be very much appreciated . david jones serve as the member of parliament for clywd west and serve in the role as secretary of state for wales during his time here . hywel williams serve as the member of parliament for arfon and the previous caernarfon constituency for over 23 year — a member who be and still be very well respect by the community that he serve . i also pay special tribute to betty williams , who serve as the labour mp for conwy from 1997 to 2010 . she be a real labour legend who be still remember with huge fondness locally . if i can be half as good an mp as betty be , i will be do okay . i have listen to many maiden speech and note that there be hot competition for whose constituency be the most beautiful in all the land — i be sorry , but game on ! bangor aberconwy include the seaside resort of llandudno , the historic town of conwy , betws - y - coed , bangor pier , the carneddau mountain , the dyffryn ogwen valley — too many beautiful place to name . i must , of course , mention my hometown of penmaenmawr , which be the favour holiday destination of prime minister william gladstone , and my adopt home of llanfairfechan . i have notice , too , that it be customary to elaborate on one ’s political root — childhood memory of be drag along to party meeting or fold leaflet at the kitchen table — but i be afraid that be not i . politic be not really discuss in our house . for our family , direct action mean go out with a bucket and torch to rescue frog . largely thank to my mother , my formative year be spend bird watching , pond dipping , bat counting and on long mountain walk . my mum know the value of our natural world and how vital it be that we protect it . i will make it my mission in this place to do so in her memory . when i be 11 , my mum ’s life change . she enrol on an access course , do a - level , then graduate with a degree in botany — no mean feat with three young kid . the fact that she be able to access high education be testament not only to the last labour government , but to the grit and determination of work people in our community . to understand why be to learn the found story of bangor university : 140 year ago tomorrow , on 18 october 1884 , bangor university open its door to its first ever cohort of student . bangor university , the first in north wales , be not found by rich benefactor or philanthropist , but quarryman and farmer who believe in the transformative power of education . they set aside money from their wage every week because they know then , as we know now , that education be the way to get on in life . our story be one of resilience and of people who believe in support each other . all across bangor aberconwy , you will find incredible people who work hard day in , day out to support other in our community — people like jaynie black and the volunteer at ty hapus ; ginnie rogers and the friends of mostyn street ; brenda at hope restored ; the wonderful woman i meet last week at dyma ni befriending ; pobl i bobl ; maes ni ; hwb ogwen ; our food bank , our church and our mosque ; and our town , city and community councillor . there be too many to mention , but we owe they all a huge debt of thank . diolch o galon i chi gyd . [ translation : heartfelt thank to you all . ] i be proud to be part of a labour government who be firmly on the side of work people . i be proud to be part of a labour government who be committed to break down the barrier to opportunity for young people grow up in community like our . and i be proud to be part of a labour government who understand that tackle the climate and nature crisis be not only the big challenge we face , but an opportunity for economic growth . the subject of today ’s debate be this week ’s record - break international investment summit . before come to this place , i spend my career work with start - up and sme , so i know how important economic and political stability be for business . under this new government , britain be truly the good place to do business , and there be huge potential in our corner of wales ready to be unleash . we have a proud industrial history ; a wealth of talent in science and technology ; and wind , wave and mountain range . everywhere you look , you will find ingenuity and innovation , and community full of pride , purpose and potential . to finish , i be proud of our past and i be excited for our future . whether you live in penmaenmawr or pwllglas , bangor or bontuchel , conwy or cerrigydrudion , i will fight tooth and nail to bring investment to our area , while promote our welsh language and culture , to make sure that our young people know that these opportunity exist and be for they . there be much to do , and it will not happen overnight , but i hope to do every single one of my constituent proud .