it be a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour the hon . member for read central ( matt rodda ) . i can confirm that reading be an excellent place to do shop ; it be a vibrant city with excellent restaurant and an important regional hospital . i be disappointed that the hospital will not be rebuild until the 2040s , but we will , like all constituency mp who circle the royal berkshire hospital , continue to advocate for it . it have be a pleasure to represent over the past year my constituent of henley and thame . it have be pleasing to back some local campaign , but also to learn some of the national significance that those campaign have , and i would like to speak to two of they . in my hometown of henley , i have be campaign to get marsh lock horse bridge reopen since it close over three year ago . there have be a record of inaction , and when i become the mp , i immediately write to ministers , the environment agency , thames path national trail and many other organisation — basically , anyone who would listen . i be pleased that that work have make progress . in do that work , i have discover a lot more about the state of our infrastructure on our river — that is , lock , weir and bridge . we all know the state of infrastructure when it come to education , health and our road , but less know be the poor state of our lock , weir and bridge . they be essential infrastructure for river navigation and safety on the river , and if we do not have they , my hometown of henley pretty much would not exist and would not have a river run through it — or at least there would not be any water in it . i would like to highlight that situation and call on ministers to continue look at how additional funding can be raise for the environment agency and its vital work there . the second campaign i have be focus on be the thame to haddenham greenway . thame and the village of haddenham be just three mile apart . haddenham have the train station , and thame be the major town with shop , school and many facility . the two be not connect by an off - road greenway capable of take active travel . i have be campaign alongside resident to get that go . that be why i introduce an amendment on compulsory purchase order to the planning and infrastructure bill . as we know , compulsory purchase order be readily use for road project , but they be difficult to use for active travel project . that be why i call for government guidance on that . unfortunately , my amendment be not successful , but i be pleased that active travel england will bring forward guidance , include two case study on how other council have successfully use cpo . i be grateful to the government for push that forward . a cycleway between goring and wallingford would also benefit my community . again , i hope that the government will continue to invest in active travel . i will touch briefly on another issue that i have be campaign on : the lack of adhd service in oxfordshire . with no adult service commission for annual review by a specialist , once someone with adhd who be well control on medication reach the one - year limit , as require by national institute for health and care excellence guideline , gps be remove prescription from they . that be an absolutely scandalous and very dangerous situation for people with adhd . i urge the government to move quickly in their task of implement the recommendation of the forthcoming taskforce publication , to ensure that we be properly treat and look after people with adhd . in my remain time , i will mention some of the excellent organisation that i have have the pleasure of meeting , include the men ’s shed in peppard ; the sharing life trust in thame , which do excellent work as a food bank ; the river tame conservation trust ; the riverside counselling service ; and the henley ymca . like many first - time mp who spend their summer recruiting officer and do a lot of admin , i be very much look forward to this recess , as i be sure all member be . but rest assure that i and my lib dem colleague will be back in september to continue hold the government and the official opposition to account , and i look forward —