thank you , madam deputy speaker . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the member for filton and bradley stoke ( claire hazelgrove ) for such a passionate maiden speech . she will be an excellent representative for her constituency . it be a privilege to stand here to give my own as the first woman to represent knowsley in parliament . my predecessor , sir george howarth , serve knowsley with dedication for over three decade . in his maiden speech , he promise to " shout and make a fuss”—[official report , 26 november 1986 ; vol . 106 , c. 289 . ] for his constituent . he certainly keep that promise , serve not only as a loyal constituency mp but as a northern ireland minister under a labour government . i have another illustrious predecessor : the mp for huyton from 1950 to 1983 , harold wilson , who serve as a labour prime minister . harold transform our economy and industry , found the open university , and start we on the long road to equality that we be still travel . he leave a more equal society than he inherit , one in which far few get by on too little . i be so honoured to follow in his footstep . knowsley make i who i be . i be bear and raise in cantril farm , a so - call slum clearance estate . my nan live in the flat there , and i go to brookside school , where my auntie jean be a clean . my dad work at ford , on the production line , and with his secure , well - pay , unionised job , my mum and dad could give i a well life than they have have . then , as a teenager , i get job in liverpool , in brian ’s diner on stanley street , and at the beatles shop , where i meet paul mccartney a few time . i start club night where i dj’d , and one of they — liquidation — be still go . however , i be here today as a proud trade unionist . it be the trade union that build the labour party . i be proud to be a member of unite and the gmb , and i be proud to be a former political director of unite and adviser to the general secretary of the tuc . the union be my second family , and it be because of they that i have come from the council estate to the parliamentary estate . i know why i be here : to speak for my class , the work class . i will not forget who i be or where i come from . it be my duty to stand up for the people of knowsley and to champion our strength — our dignity , our resilience and our sense of community . i will never talk down my part of the world or its people . our street be soundtracke by the la ’s and china crisis . our park and estate have nurture footballe legend such as peter reid and steven gerrard . we have produce the fine writer and actor of my class : alan bleasdale , phil redmond , sue johnston , and stephen graham . they all showcase knowsley ’s creative talent . last friday i meet lord derby at knowsley hall , the place that give my constituency its name . the so - call local toff and the former council estate kid speak about how we can work together for the betterment of knowsley . knowsley hall , where shakespeare perform for queen elizabeth i , still represent our rich heritage , now revive by the shakespeare north playhouse . nowadays , alongside the people of knowsley , i count as constituent two tiger , six lion , 11 rhinos , and a horde of cheeky monkey who will take the wiper off your car at the safari park . in modern manufacturing , the jaguar land rover car plant in halewood not only provide job across my constituency , but be currently at the forefront of electrification . we have 100 - year - old family firm with solid apprenticeship that lead to skilled job , such as jj smith and hemsec , pioneer in net zero construction . i will fight for investment in firm like these and job to take pride in , which can provide a good life . i be proud of knowsley , but i will always be honest about what stand in our way . knowsley be the second most deprived constituency in the country . when government have walk away from we and leave we to manage decline , we have pick ourselves up and help one another through sheer force of will , determination , resilience and solidarity . we now have a government who will not walk away , a labour government who be on our side . in knowsley , we have great woman who lead community institution that take care of our people every day , such as rachael jones at one knowsley , marie stewart at southdene community centre , jackie croft at centre 63 , pam richards at the safari kids club , caroline grant at the first step , and margaret roche at share . in 1986 , when my predecessor take his place , only 6 % of school leaver in knowsley get a job . that kind of unemployment scar family for generation . we have never recover from the devastation of deindustrialisation under thatcher and 14 year of austerity . we still face low wage , high poverty and few opportunity , and we need secure , unionised job on decent wage so that people can get by and their kid can get on . it be not much to ask , but it be everything . that be why labour ’s plan — the new deal for work people — be so close to my heart . it will be the great transformation in right at work in a generation . in knowsley we dream big , but the opportunity be not always there . teacher and school staff in knowsley work incredibly hard , but the fact be that there be no a - level provision in my constituency . no child should grow up under a labour government thinking that they be not good enough to do an a - level , and i will do everything i can to change that , alongside deliver more and well apprenticeship . my politic be the politic of people and of the shop floor , the bus stop , the school gate and the supermarket . from huyton and kirby to prescot , from stockbridge village to knowsley village , and from the johns estate to the tower hill estate , i say to my constituent : " you be my priority . i will not take you for grant . it be the honour of my life to serve you , and i will do my very good for you . " i be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the members for filton and bradley stoke ( claire hazelgrove ) and for knowsley ( anneliese midgley ) who give excellent speech , show real love for their community . i look forward to serve alongside they in the year ahead — country first , party second . i know other may think it be the case for they , but must admit to the house that i have the immense privilege of represent the most beautiful constituency in wales , and therefore the entirety of the united kingdom . from the spire of st davids cathedral , to the classic car show in cresswell quay , dobby ’s grave in the sand dune of freshwater west , and the pastel - colour house in tenby , pembrokeshire be iconic . even the little - know playwright william shakespeare pose the question as to how wales be make so happy as to inherit such a haven . if that be not enough , lord nelson declaim that we have the fine port in christendom . that be praise indeed , madam deputy speaker . we have be discuss constitutional reform extensively in this debate and pembrokeshire have always be interweave with the story of our individual , but united , four nation : the welsh monk asser summon by alfred the great to leave the great settlement of st davids to advise he at court ; the birth of henry tudor in pembroke castle who would later return from exile to land his army near dale and march to bosworth field ; and the siege of pembroke castle by oliver cromwell in almost the final act of the english civil war , begin a period of 12 year of the protectorate reign supreme . since my election on 4 july , some of the more charitable correspondent have take the opportunity to observe that i be a slightly unusual person to be a labour mp . i come from a farming family and there be not many vote labour poster around where i grow up , but time have change and , as the son of a fierce , strong and wonderful welsh woman , who be in the public gallery today , i be proud to be part of the red wave that subsume pembrokeshire , wales and our united kingdom . my wife and i choose pembrokeshire as our home . i choose to join the labour party , and now , perhaps to my father ’s despair , i choose to vote and do away with hereditary peer . i say sorry to my dad , who be sit in the public gallery today , but i be here to serve the many , not the few . talk of family , i wish to acknowledge my wife , poppy . it be not fun be a political spouse — not that i would know — and she have big fish to fry in the law court . she have be a tower of strength — a real and meaningful support — and i be so grateful that she be on this journey with i . we do not get to this place alone , and i want to thank all those true believer who stand with i and campaign in the rain , the sleet and the snow , on the beach , across farm and across our many rural community to deliver a labour mp and a labour government . i be grateful to they all . as with the history , the experience and the tribulation of the great figure of pembrokeshire ’s history , our county have see its fortune rise and fall . the fishing industry be once the large in our united kingdom . the establishment of the royal naval dockyard during the napoleonic war in pembroke dock cement our county ’s military legacy , which live on to this day in brawdy barrack and castlemartin range . the latter part of the 20th century see the rise of the oil industry and the transformation of pembrokeshire ’s economic fortune , with four oil refinery on stream by the early 1970 . oil have give way to gas , and the port of milford now have two liquefy natural gas terminal , one gas - fire power station and one oil refinery . more than 20 % of the uk ’s energy come through the port . with the rise of renewable energy and the potential for float offshore wind in the celtic sea , we be in a unique position to give true meaning to the term a " just transition " . we have the talent , the skillset , the resource , and i will use my voice in this house at every give opportunity to ensure that pembrokeshire will not only benefit from but spearhead the industry of the future . on the subject of fortune rise and fall , i wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , simon hart and stephen crabb . both be dedicated servant of the good people of pembrokeshire and have long and successful career in this house . they fly high , with both serve as secretary of state for wales and hold other cabinet position . their most notable act be stephen ’s bid to be prime minister and simon ’ unenviable task of hold together a fragmented tory party as chief whip . i wish they both well , and i hope that simon , the quintessential countryman , can find time for his alternative pursuit , give that his favoured sport have become something of a bête noire for my party . as i bring my maiden speech to a close , i wish to paraphrase the word of a man great than i and one who have already be mention in this debate : the inspirational and history - make harold wilson . he say that the party on the government benches be drive every day by " a moral crusade " and that , without that mission , that purpose and that cause , we be nothing . in my county , where we have the high child poverty rate in wales , those word be as true now as they be then . i will use my time in this house to fight for fairness , to deliver real change and to stand up for all the people who live , learn and work in the wonderful community that send i to parliament . the work be urgent , the time for action be now , and i be here to serve .