it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for north cornwall ( ben maguire ) , who give a passionate if controversial maiden speech . it be also a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the member for warrington south ( sarah hall ) , whose father - in - law be one of my predecessor as mp for northwich . i pay tribute to mike hall , whose contribution towards get the funding we need to stop the town sink into a big hole of subsidence be vital . i be grateful to you , madam deputy speaker , and to the house for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate on sport , follow the incredible achievement of our olympians and paralympians at this year ’s game . we be lucky enough to have a great record of sporting success in mid cheshire . our own paula radcliffe , who need no introduction , achieve incredible feat in athletic over her long career , smash the marathon world record . northwich rowing club ’s matt langridge win gold at rio in the man ’s eight . the club , which have a proud tradition of break the perception of rowing as an elitist sport , tell i about the " matt langridge " effect , as more young people have take up the sport with that club than ever before . and this year , the awe - inspire poppy maskill , from middlewich , who be mention by the shadow minister , not only swam her way to five medal , a world record and the accolade of be the most successful british athlete at this year ’s paralympics , but be give the honour of be the gb flagbearer at the closing ceremony . i can not leave this list without mention my mum , who get the run bug after i be bear — i do not think the two be related — and go on to win the gold medal in the 10,000 metre at the european veteran championship in 2013 . all these athlete , and other like they , have be an inspiration to the next generation of runner , rower and swimmer . it be fitting that we honour they and their achievement today . it be a tremendous honour to have be elect to represent mid cheshire , and our three great and historic salt town of northwich , winsford and middlewich . the last constituency to bear the name — back then , a two - member constituency with a strong pedigree of elect man with beard and the same surname — be abolish in 1885 . thank to 139 year of boundary change , i now pay tribute to not one but four predecessor . mid cheshire gain the village of rudheath from the right hon . member for tatton ( esther mcvey ) , who have represent the area since 2017 . i thank she for her service . it seem that rudheath ’s loss be lymm ’s gain , and i be sure the people of lymm can look forward to many year of common - sense solution to the challenge they face . middlewich be transfer from congleton , formerly represent by fiona bruce . she serve as a member of this house for 14 year and , prior to that , as a councillor in warrington for six year , a remarkable 20 year of public service that be testament to fiona ’s character . i know her former constituent appreciate her hard work and advocacy on their behalf , and her focus in parliament on champion the right to freedom of religion and belief . i pay tribute to she as a campaigner for well transport infrastructure in her constituency , something on which i hope to build in my time here . i gain winsford from the former constituency of eddisbury , represent by edward timpson from 2019 , who prior to that serve as the member for crewe and nantwich . edward ’s outstanding work on improve the life chance of fostered child will undoubtedly shape his political legacy . edward say in an interview in 2014 that he would not have be child ’s minister and he would not have be a family lawyer if his parent have not foster . he may no long be a member of parliament , but i be certain we have not see the last of edward ’s contribution to public life . finally , i pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . friend the member for runcorn and helsby ( mike amesbury ) , who have represent northwich these past seven year . colleague from across the house will know of his loyalty and his diligence , as well as his successful campaign from opposition to make school uniform cheap for all . he have be unfailingly kind and supportive towards i , and extremely generous with his time and sound advice . i be until recently a councillor in northwich , so i know at first hand how assiduously my hon . friend work on behalf of his former constituent , and how highly regarded he be locally . he certainly leave some big shoe to fill . each of my predecessor would have be a worthy custodian of the constituent part that now form mid cheshire , but these area be not just name on a map — they be vibrant community , each with its own natural beauty , rich history and promise future . the town of northwich , middlewich and winsford be predicate on the salt industry . from the roman era to the industrial revolution , these town have be shape by the salt deposit find beneath their foundation and their strategic location at the confluence of several waterway that have be exploit to support trade , transport and our community ' growth . in the good tradition of british innovation , the people of mid cheshire have find interesting thing to do with the hole in the ground after the salt have be remove . the adelaide mine in northwich once host a banquet for emperor nicholas i of russia , with over 10,000 candle illuminate the orange crystal banqueting hall , all 130 foot below the surface . today , the winsford salt mine keep the nation ’s secret , with over 33 km worth of paper from the national archives store safely underground , while just outside middlewich , preparation be well under way to store the hydrogen produce by cheshire ’s hynet project in the salt seam below . the salt mine , canal and river that run through my constituency have play a pivotal role in shape the local economy and culture and each have leave an indelible mark on our landscape and identity . but these town be not just about salt and their storied past ; today , they be thrive place that be build on resilience , innovation and community spirit . northwich be a vibrant town with an exciting and lively event programme . the now northwich international dance and street art extravaganza have delight visitor with giant insect , peacock , princess and rainbow butterfly , while the annual piña colada festival , inspire by northwich - bear rupert holmes ’s song " escape " , which i will not provide a rendition of now , have become an important fixture of life in the town centre . these event and dozen more like they would not be possible without the council , local business , rotarian and community group all pull together and support the town centre to make it the event capital of cheshire . there be pride in our community , with people will it to succeed in the face of 14 year of manage decline under the previous government . it be in northwich in 1933 that polythene be accidently discover by ici researcher , and , in winsford today , we have company deal with that industrial legacy , eliminate single - use plastic and recycle they . indeed , winsford be home to more than 200 innovative company , from creator of advanced tissue - heal technology to developer of a sophisticated ai model to keep people safe from plant and equipment on construction project all over the world . but the true lifeblood of mid cheshire lie in its people . they be compassionate , friendly , and proud of their heritage . they be people like julie , diane or matthew , run charity to help people with down ’s syndrome , autism , and muscular dystrophy . they be people like john , alan or janet , volunteer hour of their time to keep the park and the street of winsford northwich and middlewich look their good . they be people like catherine and ant who have keep our community feed , and people like gale and jess who have help more people in winsford than i could begin to count . they and hundred like they be at the heart of our community . they be the custodian of our history , and the architect of our future , and , despite the challenge time that we be face , i be convinced that it be a future fill with promise and possibility . i have long believe that the people of our three great mid cheshire salt town , and , indeed , our country , want a government who be on their side . they want politic and politician to serve they , to end the chaos and dysfunction of westminster and to rebuild our country . the key mission of this labour government be to restore trust in politic , to show that politic can be a force for good , and to demonstrate that politic and politician can deliver for people and change life for the well . i promise always to do my good to serve and represent my constituent , to work tirelessly to deliver the change that people have vote for , and to repay the trust that the people of mid cheshire have place in i .