it be a pleasure to take part in this easter adjournment debate . i always find that these end - of - term debate really enlighten i about fellow member of the house , their constituency and the issue that be important to their constituent . before i talk about something close to my own constituency and heart , i associate myself with the contribution of the hon . member for reigate ( rebecca paul ) and the thank that she give to surrey police . my own borough team in guildford have be fantastic , just as hers have be , in support our town centre by deal with antisocial behaviour . i note the absolutely crack contribution and egg - cellent easter pun from the hon . member for carlisle ( ms minns ) . i will stop there with the easter pun and move on to my constituency . i will use my time to highlight an issue in my constituency that have both national and local significance . i hope that action on the issue will not just resolve it in guildford , but help to drive long - term change in the way we support charity and business during multi - year infrastructure project . many member will be aware of the extensive redevelopment work take place at junction 10 of the m25 , near the royal horticultural society garden at wisley . the redevelopment work start in november 2022 and be due to finish in summer 2025 , but sadly it have be confirm recently that that will not be the case ; they will finish in approximately spring 2026 . that be four year of disruption for local resident and business . ultimately , the project should improve the junction , but — it be a very big " but”—there have be serious consequence for rhs wisley and our much - love local café , ockham bites , alongside frustration and disruption for local resident in village around the junction and everyone who have have to travel through it . while the two place be very different in scale , both have see a significant loss . ockham bites be lose £ 600 a day , and rhs wisley predict that by the end of the project it will have lose £ 11 million . these financial loss be highlight in the early day of the project but dismiss on the basis that current legislation compensate only on the value of property , not for loss of business . for rhs wisley , the loss have have far - reach consequence . plan for new arboretum have be delay , fund for scientific research have be reduce and community outreach programme have be scale back . the impact go beyond my constituency and the garden itself through to the community around guildford and other rhs site across the country . they be be force to consider cut to training opportunity , with a project 10 % reduction in workplace student horticulturalist position over the next two year . i be sure that member of the house will be very sad to hear all those thing about rhs wisley . i know that resident in my constituency , as well as people across the country , feel strongly about this issue . a petition that be currently live have 92,000 signature , and that number keep increase . i pause to thank my colleague baroness benjamin , who have be highlight this matter in the other place , for the answer she have gain from member of the house of lords on the issue surround the problem at rhs wisley . will the hon . member for wellingborough and rushden ( gen kitchen ) encourage the transport secretary to respond to my request to meet i and representative of rhs wisley ? return to ockham bites and its fantastic cake and tea , it have suffer big financial loss for a small business . there have also be problem with water , and all those thing combine have force the owner to make serious personal and professional adjustment , include relocate their home and deal with heighten stress level . these two business ' story be of very different scale , but they highlight a serious flaw in current legislation . we should not be leave small business , charity and other organisation struggle financially and potentially fail due to multi - year infrastructure project . not only be those organisation the lifeblood of our community ; they be fundamental to our economic success . i hope that ministers will agree to meet i and work to find a way to support those business , and commit to review the legislation to ensure that their story be not repeat and that future multi - year infrastructure project be deliver without leave key part of our local economy and community behind . i want to close on a positive note in this afternoon ’s fantastic debate by give a cheeky little encouragement to everyone in the chamber , if they have not yet experience rhs wisley or their local rhs garden , to please go and enjoy they during the easter recess . i also echo my hon . friend the member for mid dorset and north poole ( vikki slade ) in encourage member and the public , when enjoy the great outdoors , to be fire safe . finally , i hope that all member of this house and all the staff , security and police have a restorative easter , and i thank the hon . member for harrow east ( bob blackman ) for lead the debate .