i will not . after year of deadlock , it be this uk government that step up with £ 25 million for the welsh government to keep coal tip safe . there be no well illustration of the new relationship between the two government than that co - operation on a matter that i know be of concern for people in former coalmine community across wales . today ’s debate have raise some important issue and we have have some excellent contribution from colleague . i will run through a few , such as that of my hon . friend the member for neath and swansea east ( carolyn harris ) . whenever i hear the word " neath " , i just think of the " neath , neath , neath ! " rugby chant . that be definitely a " neath , neath , neath ! " speech . on the contribution by the member for chester south and eddisbury ( aphra brandreth ) , i recognise , have grow up very near to the border , the economic , cultural and personal tie that she describe . my hon . friend the member for newport east ( jessica morden ) ask for a meeting with her colleague to talk about newport . i will be delighted to do that . my hon . friend the member for monmouthshire ( catherine fookes ) talk about the 21st century school programme , as do my hon . friend the member for clwyd north ( gill german ) . my hon . friend the member for monmouthshire also pay tribute , which i echo , to all the public sector worker of wales . to my hon . friend the member for wrexham ( andrew ranger ) , i be delighted to see wrexham afc promote last season . i go to the game against stockport at the end of the season and have , in my time , drunk quite a lot of that famous export , wrexham lager . my hon . friend the member for cardiff west ( mr barros- curtis ) talk about the political dna in his constituency and about ely , and i recognise his description of the sport club . i have spend many weekend on the touchline of pitch in cardiff west and it be great to see the club go from strength to strength . my hon . friend the member for montgomeryshire and glyndŵr ( steve witherden ) give a passionate speech about the history of his constituency , which be full of people with big heart . he definitely have a big heart . my hon . friend the member for mid and south pembrokeshire ( henry tufnell ) mention his constituency ’s proud city of st david ’s and the £ 1 million regional skill fund that we have recently announce for pembrokeshire . i be very interested to hear mention from the hon . member for east grinstead and uckfield ( mims davies ) of her wind street escapade . i have some of those as well , so maybe we should have a chat outside the chamber about that at some point . i want to wish everybody a very happy st david ’s day . i thank they for their contribution and i look forward to celebrate on saturday .