i rise to give my maiden speech . i congratulate you , mr speaker , on your position and the transport secretary and the front - bench team on their position . it be a privilege and a pleasure to follow the maiden speech that we have just hear , include by the hon . member for hertford and stortford ( josh dean ) , who , along with my hon . friend the member for eastbourne ( josh babarinde ) , significantly increase the josh quotient in the house . if i contribute nothing else , i clearly increase the gideon quotient by the massive number of one new member of parliament . i also thank the hon . member for south ribble ( mr foster ) , whose public service have be endure . he have have my congratulation on that already . their speech will be a hard act to follow , but i have the advantage of represent taunton and wellington , so it should not be too much of a problem . i give credit to the former conservative member for taunton deane , rebecca pow , who will , i be sure , continue her enthusiasm for gardening and wildlife . she be , of course , a minister with responsibility for water and for our river . i be partial to a dip in the river from time to time , so i be pleased to successfully apply for bathing water status for a stretch of the tone in taunton to get the improvement in water quality that we desperately need in our river down in taunton . the river tone be the silver thread that join wellington to taunton to the level , close to where the famous cake be burn near the king alfred inn at burrowbridge . i also pay tribute to the former liberal democrat mp jeremy browne , the member of parliament for taunton deane from 2005 to 2015 . he serve as a home office and a foreign office minister , and remain incredibly well like in the constituency . he be the first member to propose a new railway station for wellington , and i be delighted to have have the chancellor ’s assurance in the previous debate that that project will go ahead . i be the eighth liberal to represent taunton in parliament since some guy name disraeli be defeat by the first one in the 1835 general election . of course , nothing far be hear of he — at least not in taunton . taunton ’s parliamentary tradition be very deep - rooted . as a county town with a castle , which today proudly house the castle hotel and the superb museum of somerset support by our dynamic town council , its parliamentarian hold out in siege after siege . today , the hard work of so many people in taunton at the brewhouse theatre , the southern sinfonia , the bluebirds theatre company , the tacchi - morris , the willows and wetlands visitor centre , the creative innovation centre , arts taunton , gocreate taunton , group such as amici and voce , and the bradford players — i have many more — the taunton thespians and the @2 k theatre ; and in wellington at the arts centre , the wellesley theatre , the operatic society , and the gaumont theatre , which once play host to the beatles and the rolling stones and be now home to the bingo , all come together to mean that not only do we have a mecca , but our area be a cultural mecca to which people come from far and wide . then , of course , there be the magnificent somerset county ground , grace by the tower of st james and the minster , where i marry caroline just 28 short year ago . i thank she and our child , emily , fraser and fenner and felix , from the bottom of my heart for their support . our school from north town and minerva to bishop fox ’s , court fields , castle , pyrland , selworthy and monkton wood feed into our nationally renowned richard huish college , bridgwater & taunton college and university centre somerset , which now offer degree like nursing , in support of the superb staff at musgrove park hospital . funding be urgently need for the hospital ’s new maternity unit , because bucket be currently use to catch the rain in the corridor of a building build for the us army — as a temporary building — in 1940 . similarly , king ’s and queen ’s , taunton and wellington ’s independent school , make a massive contribution to our area ’s local economy . we also have a successful home education community that inspire an innovative generation of young people . to all our area ’s child , i say : " be yourself . if your name be gideon , for example , there ’ no need to change it to get elect to parliament . " that be something i once try to discuss with the former member for tatton . i confess that it have take i a little time to get to this chamber — if i have not have to deliver all those bible to hotel , i would have get here a lot quick . all those institution , together with the uk hydrographic office , make taunton the ideal location for new research and innovation entrepreneur . it be only 104 minute from paddington , so they should all come and enjoy the amazing quality of life that we offer . when they come to taunton , they will find a ticket office at the station that be still work . i be amazed to hear the right hon . member for aldridge - brownhills ( wendy morton ) apparently still advocate the closure of ticket office — a policy about which i can say only " good luck " . to encourage people to come to wellington , i look forward to work hard on the wellington station project that i mention early . i invite the right hon . lady the transport secretary , and the under - secretary of state for transport , the hon . member for wakefield and rothwell ( simon lightwood ) , to visit the project . on their visit , i hope that they will enjoy a glass of famous sheppy ’s or taunton cider — or , to pronounce it correctly for hansard , zyder — at the ring of bells , the green dragon or the pump house in tonedale , in a rocket and bird glass with some somerdale cheese and perhaps some bumblee ’s relish , follow by a meal at guddi and gikki , maliha and taj , the little wine shop or augustus . they be ideal for planning visit to key organisation in the constituency , like wpa , pritex or indeed the 40 commando royal marines at norton manor camp . i be delighted to support the royal marines , with the help of former royal marine paddy ashdown — raise an ultimately successful petition to gain a u - turn on the previous government ’s shocking proposal to close down the entire facility . in his maiden speech the other day , my hon . friend the member for tewkesbury ( cameron thomas ) draw attention to the huge sacrifice that previous generation make so that we be all free to sit in this chamber today . my service in the territorial army be pretty minimal , but my father , fjc " jim " amos cbe , and my mother , geraldine amos mbe , both serve in world war two , follow their father who serve in the trench . i remember discuss it with they all . when i be grow up , hon . member will not be surprised to hear that the atmosphere and the memory of war loom large in discussion around meal table . be it not that generation ’s courage and bravery , not only in rebuild britain but in defeat fascism in the first place , that demand our respect ? they demand that we do everything we can to defend the liberal and democratic value that make this country so great . their bravery surely also demand that all hon . member , on both side of the house , always say no to those who would stir up division , despair and hatred for nothing more than vote , because they have nothing positive to offer people . it be the great privilege of my life to serve the resident of taunton and wellington — from hatch beauchamp , helland and north curry in the east to whiteball , west buckland , and sampfords moor and arundel in the west ; and from bishopswood , churchinford and stoke st mary in the south to pickney , west monckton and kingston st mary in the north — in this house . i be here to do one thing : work for they and stand up for they to those in power whenever that be the right thing to do . i thank you , madam deputy speaker , for the opportunity to begin that duty today .