it be a labour government who enshrine in law the right to freedom of expression , and it be a labour government who will again uphold freedom of speech and academic freedom on our university campus — not through create a culture war , but through work with academic , student and campaigner to get the legislation right . the secretary of state write to colleague and make a write statement on 24 july 2024 on her decision to pause further commencement of the higher education ( freedom of speech ) act 2023 in order to consider option . we have hear concern from minority group and other that that act and its implementation may have unintended consequence and result in disproportionate burden for university and student union . many be concerned that it could push provider to overlook the safety and wellbeing of minority group over fear of sanction and costly action . i want to provide the house with reassurance that this government believe that high education must be a space for robust discussion that expose both student and academic to challenge idea . the decision to pause the act be make precisely because of the importance of get this legislation right . the secretary of state indicate in her write statement that she would confirm her long - term plan for the act " as soon as possible " . since then , official and ministers have engage with a wide range of stakeholder on the future of the act . this include representative of high education provider and academic , include those from the committee for academic freedom , academics for academic freedom and the london universities ' council for academic freedom . those official and ministers will continue to engage with stakeholder before any final decision be make . thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i to make my maiden speech in this uplifting debate to celebrate the success of the olympics and paralympics . i congratulate the hon . member for warrington south ( sarah hall ) ; i completely agree with her sentiment about child who be beneath the radar , and i will do everything i can to ensure that they be lift and see . one of my happy family memory be of a trip in 2012 to enjoy the spectacle and the spirit of the london paralympics in the pool and on the track , a day that surely inspire my own child ’s passion for and dedication to sport . my constituency can lay claim to britain ’s first ever track and field olympic gold medallist : charles bennett , a train driver from shapwick — otherwise know as the shapwick express — win the 1,500 metre in 1900 and take two further medal , but be largely forget until his family discover his achievement more than 100 year later . my own journey to this place have be more of a marathon than a sprint . it take four attempt for i to win my seat of mid dorset and north poole , my home for 25 year . that journey also start in 2012 , when dame annette brooke , the then liberal democrat mp , invite i to tea and suggest that i put myself forward as a candidate . i explain that i be just a mum of four run a café and be completely unqualified for the job , have never be to university , and that " people like i do not become mps " . she simply reply , " that be why you should stand . " without her faith in i i would not be here , and i hope that i can emulate her work — such as her support for park home owner , protect dorset ’s heathland and fight for well education funding — and that i can achieve just a fraction of the deep respect and admiration that our community still feel for she . i turn to my immediate predecessor , michael tomlinson . he be so proud of his legislative role — first as a government whip , then as solicitor general , and most recently as the minister for illegal immigration . i know that he take these responsibility very seriously , but not as seriously as his love for cricket . on a recent trip to the netherlands , he captain the lords and commons parliamentary cricket team against their parliamentary team . my constituency of mid dorset and north poole be make up of dozen of community , all with their own special character . we be all link through our landscape , particularly the dorset heathland , which be home to all six of the uk ’s native reptile and to ground - nest bird . it have the most lovely walk , include on upton heath , know to my social medium follower as " my happy place . " the work undertake by the dorset wildlife trust , rspb arne , the national trust and other to restore our landscape mean that we be one of the only place in the uk to have reverse the decline in nature . eco - tourism be now support economic growth , preserve the way of life in our countryside , town and village . while the beach be in neighbouring constituency , our playground be our river , but i should stress that that be on the water , not in the water . the navigable river frome be ideal for a birds of poole harbour boat trip to catch sight of a white - tail eagle or a deer on the foreshore , or for a sail up to the anglo - saxon walled town of wareham , with its art deco cinema and pretty pub on the quay , while the small river piddle be perfect for paddle . the river stour run down from the north to wimborne minster , home to river - base dreamboats , canford school ’s rowing facility and poole harbour canoe club . i will fight to clean up our river and achieve bathing water status at eye bridge , where our teenager already spend their summer day chill out by the water , and where parent like we teach our kid to kayak . i want to support the amazing people who be work to use our natural environment to improve health and wellbee through sport — people like will behenna , who found inclusive paddleboarding after be paralyse and now help disabled people enjoy the tranquillity and freedom of the water . off the water , wimborne minster be name after its ninth - century church and be home to a chain library , a museum with a mummified cat in the wall — apparently for good luck — and an annual folk festival . the drax and kingston lacy estate , and the village that go out towards holt heath , provide the chocolate - box image you read about in thomas hardy ’s literature . accord to local legend , much of the content for his novel come from listen to the town ’s gossip when he live in wimborne . return to sport , england see footballe success and heartbreak this summer with the euros , but in mid - dorset we be thrilled that wimborne town football club be promote to the southern league premier south , and that the neighbour afc bournemouth open its world - class training facility in bearwood in my constituency , guarantee a pipeline of brilliant future dorset footballer . mind you , the pedigree be already there , as two of the england under-23 lady ' team come through broadstone middle school as classmate of my own child . give that olympic trampolinist izzy songhurst from broadstone , champion go - karter and win sailor , among other , grow up in our constituency , i want to pay particular tribute to the volunteer coach who make it possible for our child to have these opportunity , as well as to charity such as dorset community foundation , which help our athlete compete at the high level or simply let child take part in what they love . every child must be able to thrive , but our current education system stop that happen for so many young people . we have a curriculum that crush creativity , a send system that condemn child to fail , and a grip so tight on ofsted measure that teacher do not have the space to truly share the joy of learn . some of our child face an even great battle , include child in care , young carer , child who suffer bereavement , and those with disability or life - limit condition . we need those child to thrive too , and thank to charity such as become , mytime young carers , mosaic , diverse abilities and julia ’s house child ’s hospice , so many of they do . but with council face bankruptcy and unable to deliver much in non - statutory service , and with public donation down due to the cost of living , they need action from the government to secure proper funding . as an mp , my voice be my power , and i will use it to fight for they , and for all who strive to improve the life of those who feel voiceless . i also want to send a message to people in my community who feel powerless , and to young people who be worried about the future : if you want something badly enough , keep try . it be possible , whatever your background , your gender and your struggle . like i , you might take the long route , but like my famous country " mum walk " , the long one be where you stumble across the most interesting place and create last memory . like many people , i have a bucket list . it have just three thing on it : to run the london marathon , to earn a degree , and to represent my community as a member of parliament . well , dad , i finally achieve one of they . although he be not here in the chamber today — he be watch at home — i hope he be proud . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] i still pinch myself about be in this place . i be just a mum with four fabulous kid — molly , abbi , isaac and george — and my long - suffer husband paul . i have an incredible team of volunteer who keep believe in i , and a community who have put their trust in i to speak up for they . i want everyone live in mid dorset and north pole , from shitterton to happy bottom — yes , they be real place — and from gaunt ’s common to canford heath , to know that they have a champion in i , and to know that i be committed to make the place that we all call home the good they can be .