thank you for call i to speak , mr deputy speaker . i be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during this important debate . like other , i wish to congratulate all those who have speak before i , particularly those who make their maiden speech , not least the hon . member for york outer ( mr charters ) whose contribution be very substantial . i be originally from the village of dunloy in the north - east of ireland . i represent the aberdeenshire north and moray east constituency in the north - east of scotland . i pay close attention when the right hon . member for new forest east ( sir julian lewis ) be advise new member on our ambition for the future , particularly because i want to share my ambition . i be the first mp for aberdeenshire north and moray east and i hope to be the last mp for aberdeenshire north and moray east . this be a coastal area that stretch from the river spey in the west to cruden bay in the south . it be an area note not only for its industry , but for the industriousness of its people and its community . its long - stand economic strength be in farming , fishing and their associated sector , include food and drink production , and , in more recent time , in the oil and gas industry and their supply chain . the area make a substantial and significant contribution to the nation ’s energy security and food security . we be now undergo a new industrial revolution associate with the renewable sector . as the world adapt to new challenge , i believe that it be our duty in this parliament to capitalise on the opportunity that now present themselves in the north - east of scotland . it be also a most beautiful area — something of an undiscovered gem — with a develop tourism industry . member will remember that the next time they enjoy a single malt , an aberdeen angus steak , a prawn cocktail or perhaps a fish supper , because the chance be that they come from the industry base in my constituency . there be also significant poverty — in particular child poverty — in this otherwise prosperous area . although this be mainly concentrate in large town , it be also a challenge in village and rural area where it be often less visible . recent figure suggest that around 5,500 child in this constituency be live in serious poverty — some of they in absolute poverty . to be clear that mean that they do not have enough money to meet basic need for shelter , clothing and food . that be something that we should all remember in our position of privilege , and it be something that we should all work together on to change . i want to pay tribute to the outgoing mp , david duguid , who represent the previous banff and buchan constituency , which disappear in the recent boundary change . some member will know that david experience sudden and significant ill - health before the general election be call . i wish he a speedy and full recovery . david be an excellent mp who do his good to represent everybody in the constituency , but most notably the interest of the energy , fishing and farming industry . his effort be in stark contrast to the way that he be treat in the end when he be effectively deselecte by his colleague . i wish david and his family well in whatever their future plan may involve . i also wish to acknowledge the work of the last snp mp in this area , eilidh whiteford , who be an outstanding political representative . today in the king ’s speech , the government have an opportunity to immediately abolish the harmful two - child cap on child benefit and the notorious rape clause , which my former colleague , the outgoing mp for glasgow central , alison thewliss , work so hard to end . the failure to do this be an early indictment of the government ’s policy position . i be encourage when i hear contribution from the hon . member for hackney south and shoreditch ( dame meg hillier ) and the right hon . member for hayes and harlington ( john mcdonnell ) . but what about the contribution from the right hon . member for islington north ( jeremy corbyn ) when he say , " no ifs , no but , just do it . " ? it be simply not good enough for the people of scotland , an energy rich nation , to pay so much to heat their home while so many of their bairn be live in absolute poverty . i will be focus on this issue over the course of this parliament . i will seek to defend the interest of our farming and fishing industry , to protect our public service and to help realise the potential of renewable energy and carbon capture to deliver job and economic growth . but , above all , i shall be a voice for the weak and the disadvantaged . after 14 year of austerity , we need a change of direction , not more of the same . i wish to make special mention of the waspi woman who have be so unfairly treat by successive government , and who deserve compensation . to conclude , i thank the people of my constituency for their support at the ballot box , my colleague in the snp and in other party , and the various member of house staff on the westminster estate , who have be so welcoming and helpful on my arrival and during my induction . finally — and member would not expect i to say anything less — i will be work hard in this place and elsewhere to press the case for the people of scotland to be afford their democratic right to determine their own future .