i be honour to make my maiden address during this debate on carer ’s allowance . we all know people who be work tirelessly to care for love one . indeed , make life well for those who sacrifice so much be one of the main reason i make the decision to run for election to this place . in weston - super - mare , it have be a privilege to get to know some of our resident who care tirelessly for love one in the most challenging circumstance . i pay tribute to carer in my constituency and specifically to pat o’connell , jan quan and everybody at the parkinson ’s uk weston - super - mare branch for be so fearless in fighting for appropriate care service for their love one . i be in awe of their love , compassion and conviction to secure well care and respite service not just for themselves , but for everyone . it be a real tragedy that the care system be not able to provide they with suitable respite from the 24/7 care they provide . i continue to fight their corner and that of all carer across the constituency . weston - super - mare be an extraordinary place , full of a vibrant mix of people . since my family move to the village of kewstoke in 2001 , weston and the surround area have become deeply intertwine with our life . i may still have my stokie accent and a love of pottery and staffordshire oat cake , but weston be now where my heart be . it be a town where we find people with root from across our nation and from across the world . my young sister emily and lauren have become expert code - switcher between stokie and west country base on the situation , but my young brother scott have embrace the local lingo and i can almost hear he now say , " alright , my lover ? " weston have provide we all with a friendly community , a beautiful coastline and the good british seaside experience in the country — that be a fact . it be hard not to feel immense pride be there , and even though i will not play favourite with our local chip shop and ice cream stop , i can assure hon . member that there be many excellent choice in the town . this year we celebrate the 160th birthday of birnbeck pier — weston ’s old — which have be close for nearly 30 year . its restoration have be a labour of love for many people who have work tirelessly to preserve this piece of our history , and i be overjoyed to be the mp who will hopefully see it bring back to life for our community and for commercial use . weston be make up of diverse community , from the town itself , which host its first mela this summer to celebrate our diversity , to area such as worle and village such as bleadon , uphill and hutton . those neighbourhood have grow significantly over the year , with post - war estate such as bournville , coronation , potteries and oldmixon foster some of the most creative , friendly and resilient people and host event from community pride to some of the most fantastic creative art event i have ever attend . i come from a community just like those . under the last labour government , i be the first in my family to pursue a - level and go to university . it be because of those life - change opportunity that i be here today . a constituent say to i recently , " politic do n’t make any difference , " but i could not disagree more . yes , we have see challenge , but for many of we , especially in my generation , the decision of a labour government give we the chance to succeed in way we never think possible . i be determined to build on that legacy and ensure we continue to empower future generation . recently , weston have evolve into a haven for food and beverage enterprise , offer everything from traditional british seaside fare to incredible vegan option thank to local champion such as anna southwell , who have transform perception of vegan cuisine — include my own — and show how to build and sustain inclusive community through food , drink and entertainment . business such as kinda co. , know for its dairy - free cheese , have choose weston as their home , thrive there because of the opportunity we create for growth and sustainability , and while it be now just outside my constituency , the iconic thatchers cider will always be associate with our town . even though our high street , like many across the country , have struggle over the year , traditional store such as the phenomenal family - run walker and ling , open in 1904 and trade in the same place since , have keep the faith and be part of the fabric of this great town . i sincerely hope it will be there for many more year to come as we work together to revitalise the high street . weston be also home to some amazing tech start - up , and as the world become more interconnected , with high - skill , high - wage job tie less to city , place such as weston be start to see investment . more people have cotton on to what a great place it be , and i can totally understand why . i thank my predecessor john penrose for his service in this place over 19 year . i particularly pay tribute to he for his work on the digital markets , competition and consumers act 2024 and as the anti - corruption champion in the may and johnson ministries . before he come the late lord cotter , who be a visionary for our town , advocate for digital transformation and regional economic development . he be also a patron of a homeless and rough sleeping charity in weston , somewhere to go , which he care for deeply . i be honour to continue in his footstep as a trustee . i look forward to play an active role in the government ’s ambitious plan to end homelessness , and to ensure that technology be a force for good and that digital inclusion become a reality for all . our youth and , indeed , all those seek to learn and develop deserve the good opportunity . i be inspire constantly by the hope , resilience and community spirit of the child and young people i be fortunate enough to be surround by in weston . i be committed to ensure that weston continue to be a place where everyone can thrive , and where community and innovation come together to build a bright future for all . if the child and young people i see in my constituency week in , week out be anything to judge our future by , we be in excellent hand . thank you , weston - super - mare , for be my home and for give i the opportunity to serve you . i have spend most of my work life in the nhs , but speak for the first time in the house , i must start with a confession : as some of the northerly member will recognise from my voice , i be not bear in the west country . it be now 35 year since i be post to what be then raf chivenor on the beautiful north devon coast , while serve in the royal air force . at the time , my flight sergeant at raf laarbruch in germany tell i that go to north devon would probably turn out to be an adventure . i confess to the house that i do not think this place be quite what he , or i , have in mind . first , i want to thank my family , friend , and all my supporter over the year — especially my two - year - old grandson clayton , who probably win i one or two vote — as without they i would not be here . my constituency be fortunate to be famous for its stunning landscape and area of outstanding natural beauty , with beach , moor , farmland and forest that draw countless visitor every year . farming and tourism sustain many of our rural community , with historic market town such as south molton , set in roll countryside , give way to stunning seaside destination such as woolacombe , instow and braunton . chivenor , where i be so lucky to be post all those year ago , be now home to the royal marines commando logistic regiment , and my area have a proud military history . now - famous surfing beach , such as woolacombe and saunton sand , be once use as training ground to prepare ally force for the normandy landing . behind the natural beauty , the challenge that my area face be stark . like many rural and coastal constituency , it suffer from low wage , which be nearly £ 100 a week less than the national average , and an acute housing shortage that price young people out of our community or prevent they from start a family in north devon , as i do . even in the 2020 , part of my constituency still face real deprivation . in some part of ilfracombe , for example , the proportion of young people attain level 4 qualification be barely above 25 % , while life expectancy be 10 year low than other part of devon . out of uniform , i join the nhs , start out as a mental health nurse at north devon district hospital — the most remote acute hospital in mainland england — visit patient across unique community , such as combe martin and lynton , and eventually lead the campaign to build a chemotherapy and day treatment unit . my area suffer from shortfall in important medical service such as pharmacy , nursing and , in particular , dentistry . our hospital now have intensive care unit and operating theatre that be approach 50 year old and be desperately in need of investment from the new hospital programme . however , i have be astonish by the possibility on offer in my constituency . numerous coastal seat across the south - west , mine include , stand to benefit massively from investment in float offshore wind in the celtic sea . clean energy , an extended supply chain and high - pay job could be a shot in the arm for the economy of the great south - west . i pay tribute to my predecessor selaine saxby , who identify how that massive opportunity could , if do right , benefit the region for decade to come . north devon district hospital will soon be home to a £ 1.4 million clinical research centre that will lead groundbreake study into heart condition , joint problem and osteoarthritis . few people know that barnstaple , where i live , be also home to accord healthcare , a pharmaceutical group that manufacture a staggering 10 % of all the medication use in the nhs and be a vital part of this country ’s critical supply chain . it have just announce a new , groundbreaking , orally administer medication for prostate cancer . that be hot off the press this week and may benefit as many as 40,000 cancer sufferer , and it be among the first medication of its kind . another remarkable firm , systems engineering and assessment , or sea , have just win a £ 135 million contract to supply cutting - edge defensive countermeasure system to the royal navy . thank to its hard work and some innovative engineering on an industrial estate in my constituency , young people will be keep safe as they serve their country in uniform . my constituency be one of hide opportunity around every corner . we must seize they . it be an immense privilege for i to be north devon ’s voice in this place , and i intend to do it justice . i congratulate my hon . and gallant friend the member for north devon ( ian roome ) on his maiden speech . i start by thank my long - suffer family , especially my child zoe , sam and emily , who have be truly supportive throughout everything to get i to this place . let i express my thank to the amazing team in the constituency who work so hard to get i here as well . it be an honour to have be elect to represent my constituency of newton abbot , an area that i have call home for some 25 year . i tend to find that people in westminster either ask , " where be newton abbot ? " or they say that they know it well through personal experience . we be on the south coast of devon between exeter and torbay , between the sea and the gateway to dartmoor with the rivers teign and exe . the constituency name reflect our large market town , but it could add dawlish , teignmouth , kingsteignton , let alone the many village from starcross , kenton , bishopsteignton , abbotskerswell , ogwell , denbury , ipplepen , broadhempston and many more . i have be wonder what to tell hon . member about my constituency . perhaps the creative and innovative people , include newton abbot ’s own ollie watkins , the member of muse , or peter cross , usually see at england rugby fixture with his resplendent cross of st george hat and coat . or the history of brunel ’s engineering of the coastal railway , today ’s mining of ball clay or , previously , the granite use to rebuild london bridge , the british museum and other , quarry from dartmoor and transport via the templer way — a tramway itself create from granite — all ship via the port of teignmouth . or the story of dawlish violet , jane austen ’s visit , keats ' poem or how dawlish become the home of black swan . perhaps the protect shore of the exe estuary and dawlish warren , home to many thousand of wildfowl and wad bird each winter . suffice it to say , the area be steep in history , fame and natural beauty . member will find much more than devon cream tea and scone — with cream and jam the right way up , of course . grow up in a royal navy family , we move around an awful lot . move to dawlish be a natural choice , but i suspect it be also my parent ’s influence that cause i to set my sight on this place . in the 1950 , they meet in downing street when my mother work in churchill ’s office . my father tell we story of race to the parking place outside no . 10 in his old mg . speak of previous politician , i pay tribute to my predecessor , anne marie morris , and her dedication to the constituency . her maiden speech tell of the wave gently break over the train on the dawlish seawall . the 2014 storm , however , show we that the force of the sea and the increase storm due to climate change be both serious and urgent . since then , network rail have construct a new seawall , rebuild the station and more . however , it be the catastrophic cliff collapse near teignmouth that cause the long interruption of rail service , cut london off from the south - west peninsular . we be still wait for fund to be confirm for that work . climate change be a real and present threat to we on the coast , and we can not stop it with just flood defence and mitigation . we must do everything we can to reduce the use of fossil fuel and carbon dioxide emission . turn to healthcare , devon have both an age population and few hospital bed per head of population than the national average . local hospital be fall into disrepair and be often overlook in the model of care . it be during my first week in this place that i hear from the local nhs trust that it be cancel the plan new teignmouth health and wellbeing centre that would have replace the crumble hospital . due to increase cost and a recent cap place on its capital budget , bizarrely because of revenue overspend , the project be cancel . the new centre be to have become the home to local gps and local nhs service . i do write to my pen pal , the secretary of state , but have yet to hear back . in the meantime , i be work with the gps to help they secure a new home and avoid put primary care for 18,000 patient in jeopardy . teignmouth hospital be still under the threat of closure , despite housing many nhs and voluntary sector service . meeting recently with volunteering in health at the hospital with my right hon . friend the member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) , we see how its model of wraparound care have be copy internationally and that singapore be now roll it out as global good practice . as an engineer and a liberal , i know that we do not need to accept broken system . we can fix they , and by empower people we can build a bright and well future . i will do everything i can in this place to fix system and help my constituent , and help to protect the beautiful constituency , the environment and its biodiversity as long as i be here .