as have be mention , only one football league club be represent by a conservative mp , and that be the mighty bromley football club . my effort to bring about a chant of " you ’ ve get the only tory " across opposition stand in league two be ongoing , and i will keep the house inform of how well they proceed . hayes lane , the club ’s ground since 1938 , stand proudly in my constituency . bromley fc be a football fan ’s dream . we have go from strength to strength in recent year . earn promotion to the conference south league in 2006 , the club be crown champion eight year later . we climb the national league , reach the fa trophy final in 2018 and earn promotion in 2021 , but our rise do not stop there . bromley face ryan reynolds ’s wrexham at wembley for a second shot at the fa trophy in 2022 . it be an amazing day , and one that i remember well . while we may not have have " deadpool " , we do have michael cheek — cheeky , the maradona of bromley — who secure the silverware with the game ’s only goal . i love michael cheek , and i congratulate he on be name league two player of the year last night ; it be well deserve . last year , a moment 132 year in the making arrive as bromley be promote to the english football league for the first time in its history . why be this story relevant ? bromley ’s football dream be realise thank to sound management , private investment and raw talent , not a state regulator , and i congratulate robin stanton - gleaves , mark hammond — hammo — and andy " woody " woodman on all that they have do for the club . as a ravens fan , when i look at labour ’s supposedly independent football regulator , i have to ask whether it would help bromley fc or aspire club like it , and in its current state , the answer be a resound no . when the bill be first propose , it be propose with the right intention . it would protect cherished community club from bad owner , and would prevent a breakaway european super league . however , labour ’s regulator be morph into a meddling , costly political deadweight for english football , because the regulator will be neither independent nor impartial . this be cronyism at its bad . supporter of low league football club know the score : relegation all but confirm , millionaire financier abandon , desperately cling on to former glory , leaky at the back , midfield absent , not much go on up top , leadership completely out of their depth — but enough about the conservative party . despite the conservatives ' attempt to turn this debate into a game of two face , i have a serious point . in 2008 , business partner yasuaki kagami and george synan become majority shareholder at plymouth argyle , which have be shortlist to host game at the 2018 world cup , have england ’s bid be successful . it be not , of course , so their interest in the club collapse . finance be withhold and argyle , with one eye on the premier league , be relegate to the championship , then league one and then league two , in the space of three year . they be on the brink of insolvency before they be rescue by james brent . english football club such as argyle should never become cash cow for vulture such as kagami and synan . our large club should never become money launder operation for oligarch tie to murderous dictator . our football club be the beat heart of our community , around which local economy thrive ; identity , friendship and rivalry be forge ; and our culture be export . i broadly welcome this bill for the regulation of ownership that it will introduce , but there be no mention of slavery or human right in the ownership test . will the government answer whether they consider those issue important in the fit and proper ownership of club ? i have one more point . it be unfortunate that the government vote down an amendment from the lords that would have reduce gambling advertisement and sponsorship in english football . there be an obvious opportunity here to protect our young people from a toxic industry that deliberately prey on the vulnerable . i do not often give too much credit to arsenal alumnus , but i know that paul merson would have want this . will the government tell i why they vote down that amendment ? i welcome the opportunity to contribute to the debate on this important piece of legislation and what it will mean for football fan in hertford and stortford , thousand of whom travel week in , week out to premier league game in london , to which we be ably link by our rail service . before i turn to the specific measure in the bill , i would like to touch on why football be so important to community such as mine . since my election in july last year , it have be a pleasure to visit and watch a number of the non - league club across hertford and stortford , and to meet some of the manager , coach , player and volunteer who keep they go and bring our community together . so many player at non - league club such as those go on to much large team in the future , too . we can not overestimate the importance of grassroots football in our community , and i pay tribute to bishop ’s stortford football club , sawbridgeworth town fc , hertford town football club and ware football club . i particularly pay tribute to ware and sawbridgeworth , which have just avoid relegation in the late season . i would also like to briefly update the house on the 93rd birthday of john staines . some member may remember that i have raise the topic of hertford town football club ’s drive to get 1,000 people down to their game against flackwell heath to mark john ’s birthday follow more than 60 year of dedicated support for the club , 30 of they as a volunteer . it be heartwarme to see our community turn out to recognise john ’s contribution to the club , and i be pleased to report that we see just over 1,000 people turn out in hertford to do so . it have become apparent in recent year that we need to protect our game , and i applaud the bill ’s aim of protect and promote the sustainability of english football in the interest of fan and the local community that football club serve . i welcome its core objective of ensure sound club finance and systemic financial resilience and safeguard club heritage . in particular , the creation of an independent football regulator be most welcome , deliver on this government ’s manifesto commitment to protect club and empower fan . in the time i have leave , i want to mention one quick point that be raise with i by some of our non - league club ahead of this debate , which i would be grateful if the secretary of state could address . club have highlight the disparity in contract regulation between non - league and professional football ; currently , non - league player can be offer a full - time contract only at the age of 18 , while in professional football player can be contract at 17 . to ensure fairness to our grassroot club , will the secretary of state consider equalise the age at which non - league club and professional club can offer full - time contract to player in the future ? it have be my absolute pleasure to spend time speak to our local non - league club . i know that our resident be immensely passionate about football , and it be fantastic that this bill be be bring forward to put our fan right at the heart of that great game .