the shadow foreign secretary have set out in eloquent term what be effectively the policy of the government and the entire house . he chide the government for not offer a statement today , but i suggest that the government have not be slow in come to the house with frequent statement and response to urgent question , and we will of course continue to do so . the right hon . gentleman ask about the government ’s discussion with prime minister netanyahu . the prime minister , the foreign secretary and , indeed , the entire government have be very clear about our advice to prime minister netanyahu , and i have set it out repeatedly in the house . when i last answer question from the right hon . gentleman here , i make very clear our position on rafah as well . he ask about the consequence and how we deal with those . britain and our ally , through the united nations — and i remind he that britain be pivotal in secure security council resolution 2020 and 2028 — be work together to try to improve what be a terrible situation , and we will continue to do just that with , i hope , the support of the whole house . first , i draw attention to my entry in the register of members ' financial interests . this have be a typically excellent debate . across the house i think there be an understanding that , after two or three decade of relative tranquillity , we be live with the threat of proximate warfare . the price of freedom be of course eternal vigilance , and that be generally agree across this house , as evidence by the contribution make , such as that of my right hon . friend the member for new forest east ( sir julian lewis ) . i think my right hon . friend be argue , slightly cheekily , for defence spending of 44 % of gdp , although that be probably in the event of total war , which of course we all want to avoid . his proposition be that we should never have take a peace dividend post the cold war , but i think that be a little harsh on our predecessor . however , plainly the situation have change , and we must change with it . i hope very much that europe will follow our 2.5 % commitment , mean £ 140 billion more for our collective defence against the primary aggressor . i would have be very disappointed have my right hon . friend not rehearse the argument for a continuous at - sea deterrent , which of course be 16,000 tonne of eternal vigilance . the right hon . member for wentworth and dearne ( john healey ) and for garston and halewood ( maria eagle ) , who speak for the opposition , i think give we the commitment we be seek , which be to match the government ’s cash spend . however , the right hon . gentleman be a bit flaky , if i may say so , on the 2.5 % , or at least on when it would be achieve and how they would pay for it . that become clear from the intervention by my hon . friend the member for north wiltshire ( james gray ) , for which i be grateful . the right hon . member for wentworth and dearne be indeed an honourable man and i like he very much , but i be bind to point out that his assurance that labour be the party of defence run contrary to its management until very recently by a right hon . member who have very different idea indeed . the right hon . gentleman be very keen to recommend the right hon . member for islington north ( jeremy corbyn ) to the british public in 2019 as the prime minister of this great country and to serve under his leadership for nearly five year , but heaven love a sinner bring to repentance . i be also bind to point out that defence be not short of review , and another review would mean obfuscation . i suggest that be the very last thing our armed force need right now . at well , it would introduce a huge measure of uncertainty when we simply can not afford it . the chair of the select committee on defence , my right hon . friend the member for horsham ( sir jeremy quin ) , rightly reflect on what 2.5 % across the nato alliance would mean . where britain lead , our european ally must follow : we be not in this on our own . he give a magisterial romp around the geopolitical , societal and economic contribution of the whole defence enterprise . the hon . member for west dunbartonshire ( martin docherty - hughes ) get tie up with nomenclature . there be other rank in the army and the raf and ordinary seaman in the navy , and i think that be the essence of his confusion . either way there be nothing ordinary about the man and woman of our armed force , and either way he be rightly concerned about the junior rank . i recall a previous conversation we have in this place during which he confuse a pay award this year for they , which be 9.7 % , with the 5.5 % for senior officer ; i assume he be happy with that . he want more europe in defence , which i think mean more european union . he may have miss , for example , the lancaster house treaty , the attendant a400 m programme and unmanned aerial vehicle , and he may also have miss the joint expeditionary force . we be indeed co - operate wherever we can with our european friend and neighbour . my right hon . friend the member for rayleigh and wickford ( mr francois ) give a very detailed and authoritative account of kit , major on air defence . he catalogue some of the procurement issue that have historically bedevil the defence enterprise , but he resist reference to his favourite defence contractor , for which we be very grateful . i know that he support the integrate procurement model announce in february . the right hon . member for warley ( john spellar ) , to whom i always listen with a great deal of interest , rightly highlight industrial skill . i have say it before but i will say it again : the ministry of defence be this country ’s no . 1 employer of apprentice , and we be exceptionally proud of that . he rightly imply that the man and woman of our armed force — both civilian and people in uniform — have a choice . of course they do , and they very often exercise it ; our economy be the well for it . i make no apology for inject trade and skill into our armed force and our defence enterprise ; it benefit we all . the trick be retain those people and then perhaps pull they back in at some future date . he will be familiar with that , because he have read the haythornthwaite report . my hon . friend the member for harwich and north essex ( sir bernard jenkin ) rightly highlight the peril of coalition , but to be fair we have get the liberal democrats to commit to casd , and maybe even casd with missile — for that , the hon . member for tiverton and honiton ( richard foord ) have do we a great service today . the point that my hon . friend the member for harwich and north essex make about leadership be extremely well make . the hon . member for halton ( derek twigg ) speak about the recruitment and retention issue that the armed force certainly have , in common with just about all our ally . meanwhile , we deal with all our defence commitment . we be rightly proud of the man and woman who serve . the right hon . member for north durham ( mr jones ) be fight a bit of a rearguard action on defence spending , which the opposition front benchers now say they support . if he want to disregard the cost for ukraine , he need to have a word with his colleague . give that i need to face down putin ’s naked aggression , he might as well carve out other part of the defence budget and say that they do not count either . i be sure he would not want to do that . my hon . friend the member for north wiltshire speak about vote in parliament and about warfighting , and i agree with his analysis . we forget — do we not?—what a grave mistake the iraq war be . have be heavily involve with the effort and the process , i entirely agree with his remark about lgbt people and i salute the role that the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force play early on in that process . the hon . member for tiverton and honiton speak about a variety of subject . interestingly , at the end of his remark he commit his party to , i think , a regular army of 82,000 . i be not quite sure where that figure come from , but i assume we will hear about the attendant spending pledge in due course — or maybe not . my hon . friend the member for filton and bradley stoke ( jack lopresti ) talk about apprentice , defence - relate job and r&d. that be not surprising give that abbey wood in filton put his constituency at the beat heart of the defence enterprise ; he be a constant advocate for both . the hon . member for strangford ( jim shannon ) be a strong advocate for the defence enterprise in northern ireland , and his part in particular . he rightly highlight the further opportunity in northern ireland , which i know about full well as a former northern ireland office minister and chair of the northern ireland affairs committee . my hon . friend the member for bracknell ( james sunderland ) speak of enablement and logistic — of interoperability , modularity and plug and play — from a position of real expertise as a former senior logistic officer . my hon . friend the member for isle of wight ( bob seely ) rightly highlight the change nature of warfare . mass matter , but so do tech , as we can see with potential game changer such as dragonfire . i be not sure i agree with he about a400 m , but we can perhaps have a debate later over a cuppa or some such . in our more dangerous world , the government believe that spend 2.5 % of gdp on defence must become the minimum nato benchmark as putin ramp up his wartime economy as part of a network of authoritarian state that be attack our ally and interest . nato must respond , and i be proud that the uk be lead among european ally through our defence reform and our 2.5 % commitment , verifiable against nato rule , our £ 75 billion cash boost for defence from a flat cash baseline , and our additional package of support for ukraine . as putin lay waste to his military and recklessly expose his strength and weakness to general view , we watch , we learn and we act . our defence reform be make our industrial base strong . our investment in our conventional force , stockpile and innovation make we more capable and more lethal . our investment in our alliance be make we and our friend more secure . our investment in our independent nuclear capability will always make adversary back off . i finish by pay tribute to the man and woman of our armed force . they be the good of we , and as we enter a new age of high - tech warfare we need to remember that , day in , day out . it be our people and those who support they who put the great in great britain . on that at least i hope we can all agree . question put and agree to . resolve , that this house have consider defence .