member ' productiivity : digital tools with permission , madam deputy speaker , i would like to update the house on the conflict in ukraine , as we prepare to mark two year since the start of the full - scale russian invasion . like many in this house , i remember exactly where i be on 24 february 2022 . just before sunrise , i be wake by a phone call to be tell that russia have illegally invade ukraine , and that a car would be outside at 6 am , head for cobra . after that meeting , ministers be all ask to speak to their respective ukrainian counterpart . at the time , i be transport secretary , and my arrangement be to speak via zoom with my then opposite number , oleksandr kubrakov . oleksandr , who i have subsequently get to know very well , be stand in the middle of a field outside kyiv . i ask he about the situation , and he tell i that quite frankly , he do not know how much long the city would last . the russian army be understand to be just kilometre away ; the wolf , or in this case the russian bear , be literally at the door ; and expert opinion suggest that kyiv would be take in perhaps three day . however , as this war drag into its third year , far from win , russia have be push back since those early day . putin have achieve none of his strategic objective , his invade force have suffer a staggering 356,000 casualty , and ukraine have destroy or damage about 30 % of the russian black sea fleet and retake 50 % of the territory that russia steal from it . meanwhile , oleksandr kubrakov be now the deputy prime minister , and his job be the restoration of ukraine when this be over . putin arrogantly assume that this conflict would be over in day , and he be wrong . he reckon without the strength of the international support that would rally to ukraine ’s cause . i be proud that , over the course of the past 730 day , britain have be at the forefront of that global response . our effort , always a step ahead of our ally , have make a genuine difference . from the outset , we declassify intelligence specifically to scupper russian false flag . our nlaw anti - tank missile , provide in advance of the full - scale invasion , and our javelins help brave ukrainians devastate putin ’s menacing 40 - mile armoured convoy , which be head directly at kyiv . we be the first to send main battle tank with our challenger squadron , plus 500 armoured vehicle and 15,000 anti - armour weapon . all of this help to degrade russia ’s once formidable fighting force , with putin loss amount to 2,700 main battle tank , 5,300 armoured vehicle and 1,400 artillery piece . throughout this conflict , our 4 million round of small arm ammunition have allow ukraine to maintain a rate of fire , and recently help keep the russians at bay during their winter offensive . meanwhile , the kremlin have be unable to achieve the air superiority that it assume it would have , in part thank to our donation of 1,800 air defence missile , and over 4,000 british drone have be send to date . this conflict have indeed demonstrate that drone be change the face of modern warfare , and we be already learn the lesson from that . that be why , early today , my hon . friend the minister for defence procurement launch the uk defence drone strategy to stay ahead on this new frontier of technology — back by at least £ 200 million , announce by the prime minister recently — make the uk the big drone partner for ukraine . yet it be actually at sea where the ally contribution to ukraine ’s cause have be most keenly feel . our mighty storm shadows and our uncrewed sea system have help ukraine achieve a breakthrough in the black sea . not only have russia ’s fleet lose seven different surface ship plus a submarine , but a black sea corridor have open up for trade , allow ukraine to export 19 million tonne of cargo , include 13.4 million tonne of agricultural produce . at the end of last month , ukrainian agricultural export from its black sea port reach the high level since the war begin , far exceed what happen under putin ’s black sea grain initiative . as president zelensky say to i when i visit , the uk ’s contribution have be monumental . he point out that , since the start of the conflict , the uk have send almost 400 different type of capability to ukraine . together , we have show that when ukraine get what it need , it can win , which be why the uk be continue to step up our support . last month , the prime minister announce that we will be invest a furth £ 2.5 billion in military support for ukraine , take our total military package so far to over £ 7 billion and our total support to over £ 12 billion , account for humanitarian and economic support as well . in that spirit , today i can announce a new package of 200 brimstone anti - tank missile in a further boost to defend ukraine . these missile have previously have significant impact on the battlefield , in one instance force russian force to abandon and to retreat from an attempt crossing of a river . member will recall that , a few day ago , president zelensky tell the munich security conference that an " artificial deficit of weapon " will only help russia , and he be right . so today we be give ukraine more of the help it need , inflate its capability so that it can defend freedom ’s frontline . other capability will also be come its way . our uk found and administer international fund for ukraine have pledge more than £ 900 million to help ukraine plug gap in its capability , deliver cutting - edge drone along with electronic warfare and mine clearance capability , with million of pound of kit to come . we be invest not just in weapon , but in the brave personnel who serve . so far , britain have put more than 60,000 ukrainians through their pace here in the uk , but operation interflex , our main training effort , be go to expand even far . i be delighted to announce that kosovo and estonia have join we , australia , canada , denmark , new zealand , norway , the netherlands , sweden , finland , lithuania and romania in all train ukrainian troop here in britain . together , we will train a further 10,000 in the first half of 2024 . meanwhile , we be build capability coalition . alongside norway , we be lead a maritime capability coalition , and we have be join by a dozen other country in this enterprise . this be about mine detection drone , raid craft and sea king helicopter , which have already be send its way , so that ukraine can build its navy and defend its sovereign water . last week , i meet my nato counterpart in brussels , and i announce that , together with latvia , we would lead the drone coalition . that will allow we to scale up and streamline the west ’s provision of miniature first - person view — fpv — drone to ukraine , while support the establishment of a drone school for ukrainian operator and a test range , as well as develop ai swarm drone technology , which will surely be critical in the next phase of this war . britain have earmark some £ 200 million to procure and produce long - range strike and sea drone , and become ukraine ’s large supplier of drone . yet this be far from the summit of our ambition . in december , we set up a new taskforce to build a strong defence industrial partnership with ukraine , ensure that ukraine can sustain the fight for year to come . in january , the prime minister sign the historic security co - operation agreement . this be the start of a 100 - year alliance that we be build with our ukrainian friend . once again , it be the united kingdom that have sign the first such agreement , with welcome signing from france and germany have follow . the ukrainians have the will and they have the skill , and they have show that if they be give the tool , they can do the job , but their need today remain particularly urgent . russia be continue to attack along almost the entire frontline , only recently decimate and then capture the eastern town of avdiivka . the kremlin continue to callously strike at civilian target , most recently hit a hospital in selydove . putin be make no secret whatsoever of be in this for the long term . russia ’s economy have indeed shift on to a full - time war footing , spend some 30 % of its federal expenditure on its defence — a nominal increase of almost 70 % just on last year alone . if the cruel death of the remarkable , brave russian opposition leader alexei navalny have teach we anything , it be that putin ’s victory be something that none of we can afford . the tyrant of the kremlin be determine simply to wait out the west . he believe that we lack the stomach for the fight , and we must show he that we be wrong . this house may not be unite on all matter , as we have see in the past 24 hour , but we be unite on one thing : our support for ukraine . so the uk will continue to double down on that support , and all freedom - love country must be compel to do the same . this year will be make or break for ukraine , so it be time for the west and all civilised nation to step up and give ukraine the backing it need . two year ago , when i speak to an anxious oleksandr kubrakov , who have retreat to that field outside kyiv , he do not know what would happen to ukraine . now , enter the third year of this conflict , it be remarkable to see that ukrainians remain in full fight . i know that the whole house will join i in say that the uk will not stop support the brave ukrainians , our friend , until they have win and have victory . i do not entirely agree with the right hon . member ’s characterisation of the uk response in term of deindustrialisation . i do agree that it be difficult overall to suddenly ramp up from whatever level we be produce at on a non - war footing , but it be hearten to know — i think this be right , but it be off the top of my head ; i will correct the figure if i have get it wrong — that our munition and missile production be now eight time the level it be before the war , so we have certainly step up . in addition , we be carry out round of procurement through the international fund for ukraine , which we establish and which be still receive new contribution . i be delighted that australia have just donate $ 50 million to that fund . i think — again , this be off the top of my head — there have be 27 round of contract procurement so far . i be not familiar with the particular case that the right hon . member cite , so i will write back to he on the detail , but it be encouraging that we have be able to set up a mechanism so that other country that have not have our scale of ambition and footprint on ukraine can put in their own money , so that we can buy in coalition on their behalf . we will continue to do that .