not so much , she say , so there we go . i reiterate that the disability action plan be not just another consultation , but real , tangible action to change people ’s daily life , with 13 practical action across 14 different area . it be about build a society that work for everyone . the hon . member for lewisham , deptford ( vicky foxcroft ) be right to point out that day - to - day life be too difficult for disabled people and their family ; i agree with she . that be why we have take the opportunity we can take in this round , alongside the wide national disability strategy . i would love to boil the ocean and to have fix everything in the month or so i have be in the role , but i assure hon . member that irrespective of the perceive level of the role , i have the convene power and support across government . i be delighted that the hon . lady keep push for my elevation , but under the previous labour administration the minister for disabled people be an under - secretary of state . i be extremely proud to be an under - secretary of state — i thank my right hon . friend for her point about the special olympics . when i be sports minister , i have the honour of meet her constituent . i share his passion for a very important movement . it be potentially life change , which be why i be delighted that it be in this plan . my right hon . friend ask about the evidence and datum around the disability action plan . the plan be there to improve the quality of government health datum , and to increase insight into the need and barrier that affect disabled people ’s daily life . ultimately , we will evaluate the impact of these policy and service , and we will use datum , when they be available , to monitor and assess the outcome of the plan . we will start work on develop more comprehensive evaluation . i know that , through her role as the chair of the select committee , she will absolutely measure i and my role in this . i assure she , the house and all those watch that the plan be absolutely about learn , and deliver on this challenge .