i start by pay tribute to the family who be in the gallery and to those who be not . as the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green ( sir iain duncan smith ) say , i have some personal experience in these matter , and i know just how painful it be to have a love one detain overseas , often for long period and with great uncertainty about next step . i have meet many of those who be in the public gallery . they be a tribute to their family , and i be endlessly in awe of the bravery , commitment and determination that they show . as the right hon . gentleman mention , many of these case have be go on for some time . i will start by provide context on the general situation . several member have make comment about trend line ; i will offer datum on the foreign office ’s response , as have be request . i will set out labour ’s position , and then i will turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . however , as be say by the liberal democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for bicester and woodstock ( calum miller ) , many family do not wish to have their case name in this house , and many of they be not represent in the public gallery . that do not make they any less of a priority for i , the rest of the ministerial team , or the foreign office . i join the shadow minister — the right hon . member for aldridge - brownhills ( wendy morton ) — and many other right hon . and hon . member in pay tribute to consular team for their work . the right hon . member for new forest east ( sir julian lewis ) say that many foreign office staff be the good and bright , and that be certainly true for consular team , who i be very happy to represent as the consular minister , and to visit everywhere i go . the week before last , i be in pakistan , where our staff deal with some of the most complex consular case , as the house will know . they work 24/7 to ensure that people have what be often their only contact with the outside world once they have be detain , as many member have say . i would not claim to be one of the good or bright , but i be what the right hon . member for new forest east would probably call a specialist unit , give that during my time in the foreign office , i deal with many such case . indeed , i work with other nation , as many member have encourage the government to do . it be of course desirable to look at other country ' system . my right hon . friend the member for islington south and finsbury ( emily thornberry ) mention the speha system , with which i work extensively . i can assure she that i talk to my american counterpart , include the special envoy , who i will see this weekend . member seek consistency in our response to consular case . they will recognise that what govern our ability to provide consular assistance be the vienna convention , which mandate that we can not interfere in foreign legal system ; we can only ensure that proper consular assistance be offer . many member have rightly highlight the difficulty in identify whether british national have have proper recourse to due process and their full right . the foreign office remain focused on that question . we be assist 1,400 british national overseas . some of those case be more straightforward ; some be considerably more complex . we provide assistance , both directly and through a partnership with prisoners abroad — a highly value charity with which many member will be familiar . it work to ensure not only that british national overseas be visit by the foreign office , but that they have access to essential such as food and medication . prisoner abroad also support the family of those detain abroad , a vital service that we will continue to support . we have long - run partnership with non - governmental organisation such as reprieve and the death penalty project , which provide expertise in complex case . i know that right hon . and hon . member be familiar with the foreign office arrangement , so i will not dwell on they too much , but let i be clear about what a labour government will do differently and why . we will introduce a special envoy for complex consular case , in part because we have hear from family , include those in the public gallery , about their experience of seek foreign office support . we will introduce that envoy so that there be , as many member have request , a part of the foreign office with a particular focus on complex consular case . we will also introduce a new right to consular assistance . i hope to return to the house shortly to set out more detail on both provision . the right hon . member for maldon ( sir john whittingdale ) rightly highlight that we should be uneasy about the increase global trend of try to use british and other foreign national as diplomatic leverage . it be important to repeat that we will never accept british national be use as pawn or diplomatic leverage . we take a strong position on that , and will continue to do so . we will not haggle for british national , but will ensure that they have their proper right , in accordance with the vienna convention , and will do everything we can to support their family . i turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . i reiterate that i will not mention every case . there be many name that be burn into my mind , as member would expect , and case that we work on regularly that i will not mention now , but i will address those on which i have be particularly press for answer . i begin with the case of mr cornelius and mr ridley . the family be above i in the gallery . we will continue to provide support to they , but i reassure the house that i have now raise with the ruler of dubai the request for clemency , and outline the british government ’s support for mr cornelius ' pardon application . the previous foreign secretary do so , as be allude to by the shadow minister ; i think it be important to provide clarification on that . i recognise that there have be unwelcome news in this case ; i will not go into further detail about that in this place , but we will continue to work on the case . i meet mr cornelius ’s family recently , and i reassure the house that i have commit to continue to meet they for as long as the two case remain ongoing . mr lai ’s case , which be also raise , remain a priority for the british government . we be closely monitor his trial , and i can reassure the house that diplomat from our consulate general will continue to attend his court proceeding . as this house be aware , the prime minister raise the matter of mr lai with president xi at the g20 summit , and the foreign secretary have raise it with his equivalent . the minister for the indo - pacific have also raise this case with both the chinese and hong kong authority . we continue to call on the hong kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release mr lai . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the members for wolverhampton west ( warinder juss ) , and for west dunbartonshire ( douglas mcallister ) , for raise the case of mr johal . we continue to press the government of india for fast progress to resolve this matter . i recognise the diligent effort of his brother , who i understand be in the gallery , and the deep and profound frustration about this case . it must be resolve , and that resolution must include an investigation into mr johal ’s allegation of torture . i will return to this house later today to talk far about mr el - fattah ’s case . that case remain at the front of my mind and that of the foreign secretary . he meet the family , who i understand be behind i in the gallery , last week . the prime minister have raise the case with president sisi ; the foreign secretary and i have both raise it with the egyptian foreign minister ; and my right hon . friend the minister for development raise it just this week , again with the egyptian foreign minister . mr el - fattah ’s case be tragic . i be very mindful of the hunger strike of his mother , who i have meet , and whose effort have be mention by many hon . member . we will continue to focus on mr el - fattah , and i look forward to return to the house this afternoon to discuss his case far . on emily damari , a hostage hold by hamas and a british national , she and all the other uk national and people with uk link hold by hamas be very much on our mind . we continue to press for their immediate release , for humanitarian access to they , and for the medical assistance that we be sure they will require . i meet their family this week , and they will remain a steadfast focus . i would also like to comment briefly on the case of dr ibadoghlu ; we have indeed raise this case with the authority , include recently at the end of october . as the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green suggest , these be not easy case . many of they have be go on for some time , and the appointment of an envoy be important , but i reassure this house that i be the minister responsible for consular affair . it be not for official to own these case ; as the shadow minister have make clear , that be for ministers . that be very much the view that i and the foreign secretary take . i look forward to return to the house to discuss some of these case in more detail , and to tell member about the measure that we will take . i regret that in our few month in government , we have not yet see positive progress on all these case , and i note that many member have refer to the negative trend in some of these area . i reassure the house that we will continue to focus on this issue above all . as be say by the liberal democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for bicester and woodstock , the first duty of government be to look after their people . there be no high responsibility for i than serve british national , whatever corner of the world they be in .