i thank you , madam deputy speaker , for this opportunity to come to the house to discuss the importance of river crossing in my constituency of gravesham . i be grateful to the minister for give up his time today to respond to the debate . i wish to cover two crossing : one old and closed , which be the gravesend to tilbury ferry ; and one planned and very expensive , which be the low thames crossing . for those who do not know , gravesham constituency be a river community . we be bind by the river thames , with all its history , just as we member be here in the house , and we be only 20 mile apart . for much of the history of the borough , there have be river crossing , certainly since roman time . accord to one esteemed local historian , christoph bull , the right of long ferry be exclusively give to gravesend waterman to provide a river service to and from london . this be a bit of a history lesson , but that be confirm by the king in 1401 in a charter , the aim be to help rebuild the town after a fire in 1380 . since then , there have be a river crossing in place between the constituency of my hon . friend the member for thurrock ( jen craft ) and mine . it have connect the two ancient kingdom of kent and essex for eon , enable travel for trade , leisure and tourism . today , the port of london authority , which control all travel of boat up and down the thames , be base in my constituency , and i pay tribute to it . the royal national lifeboat institution have a base on the river in gravesend , and i know that the house would want to extend our thank to it for the work it do across the country . the people of gravesham and of my hon . friend ’s constituency of thurrock be river people . many family , include mine , have link to the river . my late father - in - law , trevor mochrie , be a gravesend tug seaman , who work on the river early in his career , before work on the high sea . as the river be the main artery to and from london , gravesham be and be strong on industry , and it be a source of employment in tourism and leisure . in particular , we have our gravesend regatta , which be celebrate 179 year . it be run before that , but it be make official 179 year ago by the council , because of some very unparliamentary dispute that take place about who win a race . i place on record my tribute to the committee , its chair , shane cleaver , and all the volunteer for keep this tradition go in a sportsmanlike fashion , and there have be no further dispute of that kind . give that extensive local history and heritage , it be to our dismay and that of resident , business and visitor from thurrock and gravesend that thurrock council and kent county council cease fund the gravesend - tilbury ferry service last year . since the ending of that service , local business have suffer significantly . they have tell i that it have impact on people ’s ability to get to and from work , and that they have lose many people who can not bear the thought of take the dartford crossing in order to get to work . on our high street , one particular business , marie ’s tea room , which use to cater for the pass trade from the large cruise ship that use to dock at tilbury , have be impact to the point that it can no long employ a member of staff . these thing have impact , and i be sure it be the same across our high street . i have be run a petition , as have my hon . friend the member for thurrock , and there have be other . my petition have garner thousand of signature — motion lapse ( standing order no . 9(3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this house do now adjourn.—(keir mather . ) my petition , which have garner thousand of signature , call for the return of the ferry service . it be clear that business and resident want their ferry back . at present , there be a desire for people to travel by public transport , which i support . people should leave their car at home , but they need option . previously , the option be a 10 - minute jump across the water . now , the option be a train into london and back out again , or multiple bus to get through the dartford crossing . all this be cost we precious time . if we as a society want to support public transport , relieve congestion on the road should be at the heart of everything we do . take the example of the woolwich ferry , which , by parliamentary statute , must be run and be not able to charge . i be not ask — tempt as it be — for that to be the case for the gravesend - tilbury ferry , but i be ask the local authority to protect these valuable transport route .