humanitarian aid should never be use as a political tool and isreal must restart the aid immediately . a lot of diplomatic activity be go on at this time . as i say , steve witkoff , the us special envoy to the middle east , have fly into the area and we be in touch with the us . i be work closely with the e3 and the eu . in fact , i will be speak very shortly to my french counterpart . we have not give up hope . i sense that there have be a loss of hope that we can get back to the ceasefire from hon . member in the chamber , but i tell they now : this foreign secretary have not give up hope that we can get back to the ceasefire . it be my job to try and do the good to deliver that , and that be what i intend to do in the come hour . the double standard and injustice we be witness on the international stage be truly appalling . it be obvious that isreal be break international law , as every serious legal expert on international law have point out . it be shameful , frankly , that the government refuse to state that about isreal but will rightly do so about russia ’s violation in ukraine . i say to the foreign secretary that the concern and outrage that he express at the dispatch box be not end the bloodshed . when will we get the scale of sanction on isreal that its war crime demand ? i think we all share the foreign secretary ’s shock , anger and frustration at the breakdown of the ceasefire and the death that we be see in gaza . as today ’s debate show , word matter . i want to follow up on the comment make by my hon . friend the member for cowdenbeath and kirkcaldy ( melanie ward ) , give that we be now hear report of ground activity in gaza , lead by israeli force . israel katz , the defence minister , claim that the " evacuation " of gaza would resume and he be threaten " total devastation " . those be not the action of a government who want peace ; they be the action of an increasingly authoritarian government who be more interested in their own political survival than in the survival of any innocent civilian , be they palestinian or israeli . this be not what the hostage family want to see , and we should speak for they as much as for the innocent civilian in gaza and the palestinians whose life be be lose . for the avoidance of doubt , will the foreign secretary be clear that we do not agree with but condemn the word of isreal katz , as they be not go to bring forward the ceasefire or uphold international law if they be leave unchallenged ? the language that we use in this conflict matter . we know what have happen and the foreign secretary have remind we today : for week , supply of basic good and electricity have be block . to say that isreal " risk " breach international law for have do that be to say that this country do not see those act as a prima facie breach of international law — that be how it will be hear in tel aviv . be that really the government ’s position ?