thank you , madam deputy speaker , for give i the opportunity to make my maiden speech . i congratulate all the other member who have make their maiden speech this evening , from the whiskey and sausage of glasgow west to the pottery of stoke - on - trent south , the young people of croydon east , and the beautiful tour of north east hampshire , which i have drive through many time . i pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the member for dorking and horley ( chris coghlan ) for deliver an incredibly powerful and move maiden speech with no note — very impressive . it be very relevant to join in this debate on the role of technology in public service follow several conversation that i have during recess about the challenge of connect devon and , in particular , the south hams and dartmoor to high speed internet . it be something that i will be come back to with the minister . if we be go to support rural community , small business , the self - employ and those study online , we have to get they connected . we must also be aware of the danger of digital exclusion . for all those who can not use computer , particularly old people , we must ensure that there be always a decent work offline alternative to app and qr code . i be very proud to say that i be the first non - conservative mp to be elect in my large rural constituency for over 100 year . it have a very short flirtation with liberalism in 1923 when henry vivian be elect . sadly , he last only 10 month before be replace by another conservative . vivian be the founder of the co - operative housing movement , and it be a real shame that he do not last a bit long , because we could really do with his legacy in south devon . it be a spectacular part of the uk , from the art deco hotel sit atop burgh island to the eastern slope of dartmoor , the rivers dart and avon that meander south to the sea , the headland at berry head where you can spot dolphin play in the water , and the roll hill and hedge of the south hams . it be the place i make home 17 year ago , after leave london . i take my two small daughter to devon to be near family after the death of my husband from cancer in 2003 , and it be great that they be both with we today . be widow at 34 with very young child be a brutal experience , but it teach i many thing — the power of community , the value of friendship and family , the strength of support from kindre spirit . here i pay tribute to the widowed and young organisation , which i chair for a couple of year . hang out with a bunch of widow may not sound like much fun , but be with people who understand what you be go through at a difficult time , and who can truly empathise , be transformational . i will always champion community and support group who bring people together . leave london for a rural community be a bit of a gamble . busy london play park be replace by empty field , and i be almost the only single parent in the school . i do feel like an outsider . we have no internet connection , and have to dial in through a satellite dish on the roof , which drive i completely insane ; but we get some battery hen and watch in awe as their feather grow back and they begin lay egg again . i learn to manage a septic tank and oil - fire central heating . i navigate the complete lack of bus and the absence of breakfast and after - school club , which be not easy for a single work mother . rural life pose many extra challenge , so three year later we move to totnes , i meet my lovely second husband , and this special town become home . it be often describe as alternative , but i prefer to say that it be a place that know the meaning of the word " community " . it be a place where it be quite normal to question the idea that a planet with finite resource can support infinite growth , a place where the seriously wealthy question why they be not be tax more to support those who have less , and a place where radical thinking be see as a really important thing to do . my constituency be where agatha christie live by the river dart , and far downstream , naval recruit be train at britannia royal naval college . we have wild camping on dartmoor — long may it continue — paddleboarde in the bay , surf on the south coast and the world ’s big pirate festival in brixham , as well as ancient family farm , stunning beach and thousand of mile of hedgerow . we also have the revival of the cirl bunting , a success story champion by my predecessor but one , sarah wollaston , who sit on several benches in this house . once near extinction , there be now over 1,000 cirl bunting pair sing from the farmland of south devon and cornwall because of the environmental work do by farmer in my constituency . it be proof that farm for food and restore nature can go hand in hand . we have one of the country ’s large fish market at brixham , as well as shell fisherman , oyster farm and scallop diver . an energetic conversation about sustainability and the long - term future of the fishing industry be be have , and i will work with fisher and scientist , so that we can create policy here that ensure that we can continue to fish while protect stock for the future . i pay tribute to my predecessor , anthony mangnall , who work hard to establish the national independent lifeboat association . together with the royal national lifeboat institution , it provide an incredible emergency service for all those who work or play on the water . on land , we have hundred of hospitality business that offer a brilliant experience — i recommend hon . member all come and try they out — but they have take a massive hit over the past few year , and they really need our support now to survive . however , there be so much more to south devon that do not make it on to the postcard or the chocolate box . we have britain ’s most expensive seaside town in salcombe , where an average house cost £ 970,000 , but not far away we have leave - behind neighbourhood where people struggle to make end meet on low - pay seasonal work and live in poor - quality housing . this disparity of wealth can be hard to get your head around . i would like we to think really hard and creatively in this place about how we can help even out our society , so that no one be raise a disabled child in a mould - fill home within sight of a millionaire ’s yacht in the harbour below . the lack of public transport lead to loneliness and isolation , and add to the lack of opportunity for our young people for work and socialise . we must invest in it as a public good . our school in devon be hugely underfunde compare with school across the uk , which impact the life chance of our child . we have community that have be hollow out by second home to the extent that school be close , village shop have long go and the last pub be close . family be be evict so that landlord can turn their home into short - term holiday let , and second home register as business be cause our council to lose out on million of pound a year of desperately need resource . we must close this loophole . we have business struggle to get staff because no one can afford to live nearby and there be no social housing , yet developer build and build to support the immigration of wealthy retired people from other area of the country . we have more than meet our housing target , but we be still in a desperate housing crisis . the solution be not just build , build , build ; it be about land price , what we build and where , and who buy those home . what we need be social housing , more community land trust scheme , innovation and idea for break out of the developer - lead disaster we be in . we be the home of innovation and good idea , and i would like to quickly highlight one organisation , landworks . i declare an interest , as i work there for six month in 2018 . landworks be an inspirational prisoner rehabilitation charity that i hope the new prison minister will soon visit , give the crisis we be in nationally . its amazing work have be show to cut reoffende rate and reintegrate prisoner into society . we also have a grow cluster of high - tech photonic company attract talent from home and abroad and provide highly skilled job . that be exactly the kind of modern manufacturing that this country desperately need , so it be disappointing to hear last week that these company be miss out on partnership , funding and investment because of brexit . one company be weigh up whether it will move its headquarters out of the uk into the eu . member will not be surprised to hear that as a former member of the european parliament for the south - west who get involve in politic in june 2016 , i will continue to try to find way to mitigate and lessen the damage brexit have cause , particularly to my shellfish exporter , my food and wine importer , our musician , and all those sector that be struggle to find staff . south devon be a constituency of many part , and it be right at the top of the list of the most challenging constituency in which to deliver lib dem leaflets—[interruption . ] well , maybe my hon . friend the member for caithness , sutherland and easter ross ( jamie stone ) beat i on that . i want to finish by express my heartfelt thank to an incredible group of volunteer who support my campaign , many of whom be not liberal democrats , and who be lend their vote and their time and their shoe leather because they want to be represent by a different kind of voice . i would also like to thank my dad , with we today , who never tired of campaign to help i get here — and i would just like to say that i be really sorry i do n’t campaign hard for you in 1983 , when you come quite close to sit on these benches . i could not have do it without they all , and it be the honour of my life to represent they and all the resident of south devon . i will work hard every day for they , for our environment , for our planet , and for a different kind of politic .