thank you , madam deputy speaker . it be the privilege of my life to give my first speech in the house of commons as the first labour member of parliament for the filton and bradley stoke constituency . have be a candidate since 2022 , it still feel rather surreal to be on this side of the election and to say those word , and in truth i hope that stand here in this awe - inspire place will always feel at least a little surreal . i could not be more grateful to fellow resident for the time that thousand of they have give in speak with i and my volunteer team on their doorstep over the year already , and for put their faith in i to serve they well . but no matter how people vote , i will work hard every day to serve all resident as an active , impactful and approachable mp that they can be proud of . i come from a family of teacher , nhs worker and raf service member , and their sense of public service run deep in i . i have spend my life work with and for those who too often do not have enough of a voice on issue that matter to they — on global poverty , on opportunity , on the environment and on the housing crisis . i be at my core a campaigner and advocate . i whole- heartedly believe in the power of community , and that live experience be as valid in shape policy and public service as hold multiple degree in that same subject . i see this role , which i be honour to hold for a time , as be a vital jigsaw piece , join together with other to make life fair for people across our community and our country . the nhs worker , the charity worker , the teacher , the carer , the innovator and the volunteer — i could go on — be the one who bind we . that be certainly the case across our rich tapestry of town and village just north of the city of bristol in glorious south gloucestershire . i be determined to put the whole of the filton and bradley stoke constituency — name after the old and young town at the time of its creation , and include many distinct and vibrant community — on the map . it be the home of concorde and the future of flight , with our aerospace company set the standard nationally and internationally . it be the home of the lifesaving nhs blood and transplant , the innovative university of the west of england and the vital ministry of defence abbey wood . it be also home to wallace and gromit , more place call stoke then one could count after a few great local cider , and a palpable belief that well day still lie ahead . people in my constituency do not ask for too much . we want security , stability and fairness , and to know that if we work hard , we have the same chance as anyone else to fulfil our potential . we want to know that we will be able to provide for our family through good wage earn from decent job , and to enjoy life and give back in our own way . i be incredibly grateful for the fact that even though they have be up against so much in recent year , people in my community choose to keep their faith in well . i will work hard every day to repay that trust . with that in mind , while it be almost impossible for any two people , let alone 75,000 of we across a constituency , to agree on everything all the time , i will always be up front with fellow resident , will listen , and will share what decision i be make and why . i believe that how we do thing in politic matter almost as much as what we do . i appreciate my part — my responsibility — in do politic differently and have well conversation . on that note , i give thank to my predecessor . jack lopresti champion defence , and i know that he will be glad of this government ’s continue support for ukraine . before recent boundary change , some local resident be serve by luke hall , and briefly by my hon . friend the member for bristol north east ( damien egan ) , when he be the last member for kingswood . my true thank to they and their predecessor for their service . i also want to give my personal thank to two other former member of this house who have be important in my journey to this place . sally keeble be the near labour mp to i when i be grow up in a village that still do not have a labour mp . she take i under her wing and first encourage i to think about stand to serve in this place . i also thank tony blair , whom i have the privilege of work closely with for a few year at his institute for global change . his approach to consider and considerate leadership have teach i a great deal . it be the last labour government ’s response to the make poverty history campaign that show i that politic at its good can be an unparalleled force for good , and that significant change can happen when people power meet political power . that be when i first find the labour party . i get into politic , like many , to make a difference , but i be drive every day by the simple belief that someone ’s background should not determine their life chance and life choice . that be why it feel fitting to give this speech today , in a debate that be fundamentally about how we make our parliament well and fair . while i be a great supporter of british institution and tradition , there be clearly no place in a modern parliament for people — largely man — who can vote on legislation as a birthright , because their father do . as a new officer of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , and as a soon - to - be member of the upcoming group focus on political and media literacy , i will work hard and across the divide to help other to feel as confident , capable and comfortable as anyone else in these space . i hope to show that if i can stand here today — a girl from a village who have , and still have , a simple belief in make life fair — so can anyone . i be fully commit to serve local people well , put our priority at the heart of the agenda and break down barrier to opportunity , so that everybody have their chance to thrive . i end by thank my family , friend , campaign team and community , who inspire i every day .