may i begin by welcome the new secretary of state for health and social care , my hon . friend the member for louth and horncastle ( victoria atkins ) , to her place ? this have be a good and full debate . it have , in large part , be fairly well - inform , although i think the quality of the offering from behind i be a little ahead of that from in front . none the less , it have be a good and passionate debate . no effort today be in any way well than that of my hon . friend the member for uxbridge and south ruislip ( steve tuckwell ) , who give we a virtuoso example of a maiden speech . he refer to the fact that it be in his constituency that winston churchill first utter the immortal word , " never in the field of human conflict be so much owe by so many to so few . " of course , churchill then repeat that in this chamber , but not with the same eloquence as my hon . friend , and he certainly do not manage to squeeze in a tribute to the middlesex arms , my hon . friend ’s local pub , where i be sure a free beer await he — that be probably where he be at this very moment . now that i too , in addition to he , have mention his local pub , i hope that a second pint await he . there be certain thing that the shadow secretary of state , the hon . member for leicester west ( liz kendall ) , and i can agree on , and smoking be one of they . i be interested to learn that she be a former smoker . they always say that former smoker have a passionate desire to stop other people smoke , and she certainly demonstrate that . we know that one in four cancer be cause by smoking . as a father of three young daughter , vaping be of great concern to i personally , and i be pleased to see the reference in the king ’s speech to get on top of those kind of product and the way in which they be retail . the hon . lady also mention mental health , as do many of this afternoon ’s speaker . we have say that we will come forward with a mental health bill if parliamentary time allow , and of course that do not mean we have not already do a very great deal in exactly that space , or will not do a great deal far . some £ 2 billion of extra funding be already go into mental healthcare compare with four year ago , with a 20 % increase in staffing since 2010 . it do not stop there : we will also be bring forward mental health hospital and 100 specialist ambulance .