thank you for call i to make my maiden speech , madam deputy speaker . before i do , may i commend figen murray and her family and friend for the excellent campaign they have continue , completely selflessly ? i be sure it will save the life of hundred , if not thousand of people . they be a great example to we all . i confess to be unusually nervous — as indeed i should be — as i address my honourable colleague across the house for the first time as the first member of parliament for tiverton and minehead . i would like to begin by thank the two previous mps for tiverton and minehead . my fellow liberal democrat , my hon . friend the member for honiton and sidmouth ( richard foord ) , have happily be return by his constituent as their mp , where he will continue to be a hard - work local champion . i be also grateful for the 23 year of service that my predecessor in bridgwater and west somerset , ian liddell - grainger , in his own inimitable style , give to my constituent in that part of my constituency . he be a doting grandfather , who will now have more time to spend with his grandchild . i also want to thank rebecca pow , the former member for taunton deane , who be a prolific gardener — vegetable be a particular favourite , i understand — and whose constituency encompass some of the village and town now in tiverton and minehead , as well as the constituency of taunton and wellington . as a new member of parliament , this place , even though it bear a resemblance to my alma mater , be a difficult and different environment to master . i know that i speak for all new member when i thank all member of staff of the parliamentary estate , from doorkeepers to police officer to cater and clean staff . i thank they all for their warm welcome , and for their tolerance and patience with the numerous question they answer with humour and understanding . thank you all . since september last year , my team , know as " team terrific and the stalwarts " , have knock on nearly 31,000 door , deliver hundred of thousand of leaflet , letter and survey and speak to over 12,000 resident . i know what matter to the people of tiverton and minehead because i have ask they . i be raise in somerset and have spend most of my adult life in devon , from holcombe rogus via hemyock to bampton in the tiverton and minehead constituency . my husband and i choose to raise our family in devon . in fact , all four of our child be bear devonians . our eld son , henry and tom , be bear in the old hospital in tiverton . it be my sincere intention to support the nhs and social care system in tiverton and minehead by keep our local hospital open in minehead , tiverton and williton , and by support all our gp surgery . ours be a very rural area and the need to keep local hospital open be especially press give limited transport link and a high - than - average elderly population . as mine be a rural and often disconnected constituency , transport improvement be one of my key priority . with that at the forefront of my mind , i have convene a meeting with peninsula transport , the body that oversee all public transport in devon and somerset . along with my transport adviser , david northey , who have a deep history in this area as a former head of strategic planning at great western railway , i have be hard at work for my constituent , put together a transport plan and highlight the challenge and solution for rail and bus service across tiverton and minehead . minehead train station desperately need link to the main line at taunton ; i know that my hon . friend and neighbour the member for taunton and wellington ( mr amos ) would agree . we need also to secure the number 25 and 28 bus service in the north of the constituency and look carefully at rural bus route to service the village of exmoor , such as exford , withypool and winsford , along with local town , particularly wiveliscombe . those will be key part of that new plan for the local area . poor public transport provision create a particular barrier to schoolchildren and student in tiverton and minehead . some have no bus to take they to school , no way to walk to school or no way to cycle to get there . other than the small a - level provision at west somerset college , there be no — i repeat , no — sixth - form provision in my constituency . student have to travel to exeter , taunton or bridgwater if they wish to pursue their study . that limit their aspiration and ability to succeed . shockingly , west somerset rank 324th out of 324 on the social mobility index , and such transport problem explain some of why that be . however , teacher and head of primary school across the constituency and of secondary school in tiverton , minehead , williton and uffculme do not lack aspiration for their pupil . they be work daily to improve access to well education . that include campaign to have facility worthy of 21st - century educational standard . the first letter i write , within day of get elect on 5 july , be to our new secretary of state for education , ask for a meeting to discuss the dire state of tiverton high school . nearly 25 year ago — i repeat , 25 year ago — tiverton high school be promise a new build . the previous labour government put it on their priority list . the last conservative government sit on their hand and do nothing . the school be deem by the environment agency to be a " danger of death " from flooding . there be asbestos in the sport hall , and child be be teach in dining and communal area . it have capacity for 1,300 pupil but need capacity for 1,800 . give the pledge make by our new prime minister and his commitment to school , i know that i will get a fair hearing from the secretary of state for education . i hope that she will agree to meet a delegation of staff , parent and child from tiverton high school in the near future . community play a crucial role in tiverton and minehead . there be wonderful organisation provide support and help , from community food bank to support group for carer , to rotary club , conservation group and the environmental network with which i work to monitor and prevent the pollution in our river and on our beach . those organisation all make tiverton and minehead the wonderful , beautiful , special part of the uk that it be . when they meet to discuss important community issue , the terrorism ( protection of premises ) bill will ensure that they be safe . however , my party have previously have concern about the impact on small - scale venue ; i be delighted to hear today that the approach be more light touch than expect . as a former director of the national farmers union , i have a deep passion for and understanding of my local farming community , who be spread across the constituency and face hard challenge than they have for generation . that be thank to the disastrous brexit deal foist upon they by the previous conservative government . in the face of climate change , increase rainfall , dryer summer and the rise cost of energy , they battle on . to they i say , " i will always back my farming community . let ’s work together to secure a future for farming across exmoor , west somerset and mid devon . come to my monthly farmer ’ surgery so that i can represent my farming community to the very good of my ability . " become an mp have be my ambition since i be 17 , when i join the liberal party at school . it have take i four attempt over 43 year of campaigning , but now that dream have become a reality . without my family , it would have be impossible . as a professional woman , i have break several glass ceiling thank to my inspirational grandmother , mabel and jesse , who offer wise counsel ; to miss whaite , now mrs michael limb , my latin teacher , who keep i sane at boarding school ; and especially to my mother , who have always believe in i . mummy , thank you — i love you . i be so proud to have she here today with my husband and our eld son in the gallery , so that she can see this moment . yesterday i celebrate my three - score - year birthday ; i say to my conservative colleague , whose math skill in government be find somewhat want , that that be 60 . i share my birthday with margaret hilda thatcher , who must be one of the good recruiting agent for the liberal and labour party . i be proud that i share nothing with her other than a birthday . my passion for politic flow from my compassion for my fellow human being — whoever and wherever they be , irrespective of background , race , religion , colour , gender , sexuality or ability . it be impossible to mention everyone and everything in one ’s maiden speech , but if there be one thing that i wish my constituent to know it be this : they be my world . i feel humble and honour to have be elect to represent tiverton and minehead in parliament . they can help i do my job by come to my surgery at tiverton and minehead , wiveliscombe and on exmoor , by ring my office and my staff , and by write we letter and email . i be at their service .