i welcome my hon . friend to her place . she and i be involve in young labour together — only a few year ago , i feel — so it be great to see she finally in this place where she belong . she raise the important matter of nhs dentistry and the difficulty that people have get an nhs appointment , which be particularly acute in norfolk . that be why the government be commit to a rescue plan and to provide another 700,000 nhs dentist appointment , which i hope will relieve that acuteness in norfolk . thank you , madam deputy speaker . i congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the chair , although it feel a bit weird to welcome anyone here , give that i have be here for about two minute . i follow on from the excellent contribution make by my hon . friend the member for poole ( neil duncan - jordan ) , for cardiff west ( mr barros - curtis ) , and for edinburgh east and musselburgh ( chris murray ) among other . i praise in particular my hon . friend for edinburgh east and musselburgh , both because he give an excellent speech and because his mum be one of my constituent . as i start this new job , i have be think a lot about my family ; i be do so while prepare my remark today . i be think in particular of my grandpa , who be a coalminer in the coalfield of lanarkshire , just outside glasgow . when i be a wee boy , he would tell i of the condition that he work in : " darkness , " he say , " so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eye and still not be able to see it . " in that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandwean , as he would say . all the while he toil , he be inhale fume so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . my dad , a welder , be here today — off during the glasgow fair — along with my mum , who run her own business , to watch i from the gallery . my career so far have be very different from that of my parent and grandparent . for a start , they have a proper job , whereas i be now do this for a living , but it have be different for two relate reason . the first be the labour party — both in the sense that it have help to provide i with a new job , and in the protection that it have deliver for work people . health and safety legislation , deliver by labour and build by the trade union movement , have end the kind of condition that my grandparent work in . the second reason my career have be different be technology . i suspect that today in britain there be more bitcoin miner than coalminer , and that be ultimately a good thing . coalmining be difficult , hard , laborious work . as a kid i spend many long hour in front of my computer and , while much of that be spend play fifa against my wee brother mark , some of it be more productive , because i teach myself to code . i watch youtube video and over week , month and year i learn how to build software . i develop iphone app that be use around the world , mean that code write on my laptop in glasgow could be push out to device around the world in second and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from los angeles to dubai . if it can do that , technology can reform our public service too . technology might even help to reform this house , as we be debate today . i hope and know that high - growth , innovative business in my home city of glasgow will be a key part of that . much have be say and write about glasgow over the year , but one thing stick with i in particular . anthony bourdain be not a man know for his parliamentary language , so let we just say that he describe glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an " antidote " to the world , in his word , " so unapologetically work class and attitude - free " . i think he be right because , of all the thing i love about glasgow , it be our people and our humour that i enjoy most . if someone ever get a wee bit too big for their boot , return home to glasgow will soon put an end to that — something i be sure will be increasingly useful the long i spend in this place . unlike many glaswegians , my admiration even extend to some of glasgow ’s politician . it be customary in speech such as this to praise our predecessor , but i know that for some that will be do through slightly gritted tooth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . in my case , i talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . stewart mcdonald serve the people of glasgow south diligently and build an enviable reputation in this place . he be particularly respect for his long - stand support for the people of ukraine , something that see he award the ukrainian order of merit . if i leave this place have do half as much as he do for people around the world fight for democracy , i will leave a happy man . before stewart , there be labour predecessor . there be tom harris , who have be personally kind to i ; john maxton , now lord maxton , whose son teach i modern study in high school , believe it or not — although i will leave it up to other to decide whether he do a good or bad job of that — and of course teddy taylor , who be still remember fondly by many of my constituent . i would also like to mention two other member of this house who have a big impact on my life , both from glasgow . the former member for east kilbride , adam ingram , grow up in the east end of glasgow and be one of the first people i ever speak to in the labour party . his advice and wise counsel have be a constant source of support to i over the year , and i be incredibly grateful . the other be a southsider , my friend and the former member for glasgow central , anas sarwar . i have the great privilege of serve as the director of anas ’s successful leadership campaign to become leader of scottish labour . three and a half year ago , as we sit begin that campaign , it be hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moment , i do not think we would have predict this . i stand here as one of 37 scottish labour mps . have praise three glaswegians , i will do something unusual for a glasgow mp and praise someone from edinburgh . my right hon . friend the member for edinburgh south ( ian murray ) have be a friend of mine for many year , and he deserve enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole scottish labour mp , and for be someone who recognise that the labour party have to change if it be to earn people ’s trust once again . it give i enormous pleasure and pride to see he in his rightful place as the secretary of state for scotland . that brief interlude aside , we return to scotland ’s real capital city . i be privileged to represent glasgow ’s southside , a place that have have something of a renaissance in recent year , boast the trendy tenement of shawlands , the tree - line avenue of newlands and the beautiful conservation village of carmunnock , among other . my constituency contain many of glasgow ’s beautiful park , of which linn park , queen ’s park and pollok country park be just a few . in the latter , hon . member will find the burrell collection , which be award the art fund ’s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . like many part of the city , however , we be not without difficulty . castlemilk be an area with enormous spirit and the kind people anyone will ever meet , but it also remain an area with challenge . even today , the simple act of get a supermarket in castlemilk have prove difficult , something i hope i hope to change as local mp . what be true of all my constituency be that it be an outward - look , diverse and welcome place . the scots - asian community in particular have contribute enormously to glasgow ’s character , and i be very proud to represent they here in parliament . immigration have make my constituency rich , and it make our country rich , too . the southside of glasgow be also a passionately pro - european place . although brexit be settle in the previous parliament , i intend to support the government ’s move to repair our relationship with europe . my first duty be to my constituency and my country — be the member of parliament for glasgow south be the only job that i will do , so long as the people of glasgow south wish for i to continue — but i also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many million of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toil away in darkness , just as my grandpa do all those year ago . i hope that none of we in this house forget the million — indeed , billion — of people around the world who be not as lucky as we , include those face persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bind by modern slavery . i be one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but i will never forget the people who put i here and the people who do not have a voice . deliver for they will be how i judge my success .