i think the climate change committee be actually say that its most ambitious scenario , which we should be aim for , be for we to cut the use of gas by 90 % . be we go to carry on use north sea oil and gas ? the question for the hon . gentleman , and for the whole house , be this : do we choose , for the future , to carry on drill every last drop ? that be the government ’s policy , in contravention of all the scientific advice , which be that we will end up in a 3 ° world — need billion of pound of taxpayer subsidy to bring about that investment through persuasion , and divert investment from the private sector . personally , i do not think that that be the right choice . the lesson of this crisis be one that the government should have learn , and one that other country around the world have learn : the only way to get energy security be to sprint for clean power . that be why the government ’s onshore wind ban be such a disaster . that be why their offshore wind auction be such a disaster . that be why their energy efficiency failure be such a disaster . this bill neither protect we on price nor give we energy security . here be the thing , the bill be not motivate by million of people lie awake at night , worry about the cost of living crisis ; it be motivate by a prime minister lie awake at night , worry about the conservative party crisis . the interesting thing be that this bill be plan well before the right hon . member for east surrey ( claire coutinho ) become energy secretary . it be the last desperate throw of the dice by what we might call the no . 10 galaxy brain , to use climate change as what they call a " wedge issue . " they say this to the newspaper all the time . series 1 of this new strategy be air in september , when the party of churchill and thatcher become the peddler of wacky conspiracy theory they find on the internet : abolish the mythical seven bin ; end the imaginary threat of compulsory car sharing ; say no to invent conspiracy theory on 15 - minute city ; and fight the fictional meat tax . and now we have a sequel . no long a few throw - away conspiracy theory , this be now the central strategy of their legislative programme . member should not take my word for it . it be what the prime minister ’s adviser brief to the paper day after day . one paper i read on monday report that the prime minister want to " weaponise climate change " as a wedge issue . where the british people see an energy crisis force up their bill , the government see a wedge issue . where the british people ask how they can have liveable town and city with good transport , the government see a wedge issue . where the british people worry about the effect of the climate crisis on their kid and grandkid , the government see a wedge issue . the point be that the government can not really deny it , because they know this be what they be say every day . " we think there be a big opportunity for the conservative party to try to create division on climate change . " that be why the prime minister use word like " eco - zealot . " it be all very transparent . they be lock in the boot of a strategy . whether they agree with it or not , that be what be happen . certainly , and i will come on to just how much funding have be make available . i draw the hon . gentleman ’s attention to the national lottery heritage fund , which have provide £ 454 million recently to a couple of project . moreover , the department for levelling up , housing and communities , through levelling - up funding , have provide more than £ 33 million to another couple of project . that be perhaps an area that my hon . friend could also look into . i know very well that he have previously be incredibly successful in secure level - up funding . as a champion of the morecambe eden project , i understand that £ 50 billion have be raise through the levelling - up project in his area , so i be well aware of his capability in that field . in response to the hon . member for reading east ( matt rodda ) , let i say that i would be delighted to look into funding opportunity , specifically around access . i will write to he about that , because i be not familiar with what might be available at this time . on the wide funding for canal and inland waterway , we know — because my hon . friend have just explain — how important these national heritage asset be , provide many public benefit . i be also fully aware of how important it be to have access to water and green space for our physical health and mental wellbeing , not to mention the benefit that they provide for nature . those benefit be set out in our environmental improvement plan . halt the decline of nature by 2030 and increase its abundance thereafter be the apex priority follow the environment act 2023 . canal and waterway , river , lake , coastal area and stream be fundamental to that . people enjoy be by canal and waterway and use they for leisure and recreation , as well as , in the case of canal , for their historical value . they form an important part of our natural environment by provide the green corridor along which biodiversity can flourish , as well as contribute to the growth of local economy , such as through domestic tourism . the canal & river trust report that there be nearly 900 million visit to its canal last year , many of which be repeat visit — with around 10 million individual user each month . that give we a real sense of the scale and popularity of our canal . i pay tribute to the canal & river trust for the work that it do day in , day out to look after the network . our navigation authority have an important role to play into the future as well , because they will make sure that our nation ’s key infrastructure be resilient to climate change . as we have set out in our national adaptation plan of how we will mitigate and adapt to the risk set out by climate change committee , these waterway may suffer the consequence of climate change more than other . importantly , the work that the navigation authority do will help we meet our net zero target through sustainable transport and energy generation , and help to achieve water security through flood mitigation measure and water transfer . i will write to my hon . friend the member for morecambe and lunesdale with the specific of any funding analysis that have be do . as i say , i be not the minister responsible for inland waterway , but i will take the time to write a detailed analysis if i can . i may require further information from the volunteer and the partnership that he mention . the canal & river trust and the environment agency be the two body that receive direct funding , and it be important to be clear that we will continue to provide significant funding . the canal & river trust be set up in 2012 as a charity independent of government . the idea be to replace the publicly own british waterways and free it from public spending constraint . the trust own and manage a network of some 2,000 mile of canal and river in england and wales . the original endowment in 2012 be £ 450 million , but it be now worth £ 1 billion . from 2027 , £ 400 million be propose to be grant over a 10 - year period . we will continue to support the canal & river trust , but we certainly encourage it to work with other to make the most of the commercial opportunity as well . now that the trust be free of public sector financing constraint , it can source alternative revenue stream , include charitable donation and legacy , charity tax relief , third - party project funding and borrowing on the financial market , while continue to receive a substantial government grant . the trust be also endow by the government with a significant property and investment portfolio from british waterways . as i say , it be originally worth £ 450 million and be now worth over £ 1 billion . that be the result of sound investment management by the trust . to provide further support and financial certainty for the trust while it be become establish , the government agree in 2012 to provide a 15 - year grant of around £ 740 million . an important part of the 2012 transfer from british waterways be the memorandum of understanding sign by the department for environment , food and rural affairs and the trust , which contain a clear objective that the trust would progressively move towards great self - sufficiency and reduced reliance on public funding , through its £ 1 billion property and investment portfolio and freedom from public sector financial constraint . follow a government review of current grant funding that be announce in july this year , a further substantial grant funding package have be announce that will provide £ 400 million across the 10 - year period from 2027 . importantly , that will bring the total amount of government support for the trust to around £ 1.1 billion since 2012 . i also want to discuss the funding for the environment agency ; as i mention , there be two body that look after the network of canal and river . the environment agency ’ 630 mile of navigation be fund in the form of an annual grant in aid . for the three - year period from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 , that amount to £ 73 million . i hope i have set out that this government really have support canal and river , whether through the canal & river trust or the environment agency , but that there be other way in which those organisation can bring in additional funding , as we have hear . to focus on the project that my hon . friend be progress , which be the most important thing , i can not commend too highly the volunteer and their ambition for their area . the project have such importance for the local community , because it will not only bring back something that be last use in 1947 , but will bring benefit such as tackle climate change , improve people ’s physical and mental wellbeing , and support biodiversity . that be absolutely what we should be do . it support the target of the environmental improvement plan and the work of group such as sustrans , public right of way and national trail . we all recognise the benefit of be near water and appreciate nature — and , goodness i , we all need to get a little bit more active . i confirm that i will write to my hon . friend with the detailed analysis of the funding for the project so far , and i will take a look at other funding stream as well . most importantly , i look forward to visit he , perhaps in kendal , to congratulate the volunteer on their hard work and success to date . it be brilliant to end today ’ sit with some wonderful good news about a really successful big society mission . question put and agree to . house adjourn .