motion make , and question propose , that this house do now adjourn.—(gagan mohindra . ) have sit for many year next to ann on this very spot on the back benches , and on the other side of the house as well , i want to echo my hon . friend ’s remark about ann ’s incredible passion , pride and sense of justice , but i also want to mention her sense of mischief and the twinkle in her eye . she bring both passion and humour to this chamber . she be sadly miss , and we be all greatly diminish by the lack of her presence in this house . certainly in cardiff west , where in her latter year she be a very active constituent and correspondent with i as her local mp , i certainly miss her letter , even though they create a great deal of work for i here in this place . i thank my hon . friend for that intervention . ann understand the need to keep job in local community . tyrone o’sullivan , leader of the tower colliery buy - out , who sadly also pass away early this year , speak at an event for ann that be organise in march last year by our local labour woman ’s branch in cynon valley . tyrone acknowledge and celebrate ann ’s contribution to the fight for tower colliery , and he remind i , only week before his death , of the importance of the working - class struggle for today . they show the way to build local economy , build local wealth for local people , not encourage local people to leave in order to get on in life . i share that vision and i try to carry on in the same vein with my work on the local economy in cynon valley . ann fight battle on behalf of miner . when she become mp , our constituency be in the throe of fighting to keep the mining industry alive . next year , we will remember 40 year since the 1984 miner ' strike — the year when ann become mp for cynon valley . i be , as a child , on the demonstration through the town of aberdare with ann . in her maiden speech in parliament , ann say that the miner ' strike be " a symbolic fight , a fight against the two britains — the have and the have not . it be a protest on behalf of a lost generation of young man and woman who have never be able to find a job in the valley of south wales . " that fight continue . public service worker , rail worker and health worker today be fight against two britains — the have and the have not . ann also fight tirelessly for compensation for miner suffer health problem as a result of their work . as she say in the same speech : " it be a heartbreaking experience — i wish that conservative members could share it — to see a miner gasp for breath even while use an oxygen mask . yet , because he have not be diagnose as suffer from pneumoconiosis , he do not get a penny in compensation . that be more than wrong , it be cruel and unjust . " — [ official report , 7 june 1984 ; vol . 61 , c. 476 - 77 . ] i , like other member in the chamber , be currently involve in the ongoing battle for miner ' pension right and compensation , so again the fight go on ; the thread of history continue . my hon . friend ’s intervention be very timely , because i be just come on to the point that ann be renowned for her internationalism , from cambodia to south africa , to east timor and turkey , and of course , her commitment to support the kurdish people . she be for over 20 year chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human right , which continue to raise awareness of serious human right violation throughout the world . she be also a member of numerous parliamentary committees , include those on international development and foreign affairs , and she head the ipu committee on the human rights of parliamentarians throughout the world . as my hon . friend say , ann be sack not once but twice from the shadow cabinet . it be a great pleasure to be able to speak about my friend ann clwyd , whom i know extremely well . i thank my hon . friend the member for cynon valley ( beth winter ) for the wonderful way she have put her memory on the record today . i first know ann when she be elect to parliament along with i in the early ' 80 . we share an office in the cloisters downstairs , along with about 25 other mp . it be an extremely noisy place , because ann have a great deal to say . lord campbell - savours often come along to have an argument with ann about something , or to tell she what to do , and she tell he what to do and so it go on . tony benn be next door , and there be a number of other there , so it be not a quiet place . the office be also home to my dog call mango , who come in as well . ann be deeply concerned about mango ’s health and often look after mango for i . one day there be a leak in the roof . it be literally a leak — there be a lot of talk about government leak , but this be a real leak with water come in from the roof . the rest of we just moaned and groan and phone up service and say , " please fix this leak " , but ann ? no , no , no . i open the evening standard at lunchtime that day . there be a picture of ann clwyd with an umbrella over her head , raincoat , wellington boot — the whole bit — explain how parliament have so deteriorate that she be force to come in with protective gear to get through the day . she have this wonderful panache for publicise event and issue , but that hide a deep steel in what she do . she represent cynon valley , where tower colliery be . i be at the next desk to she . the miner ' strike come , and they want support , so she ask i to get a load of people from my constituency to go to cynon valley . we hire a coach and a van , we take food and we go in large number . ann meet we there . we build up a great relationship with tyrone o’sullivan , and it be an honour to be invite to speak at his funeral recently with my hon . friend the member for cynon valley . ann be somebody who stand up for what she believe in . she and i be two of a very small group of mps who oppose arm sale to iraq and speak up for the kurdish people during the chemical attack on halabja . we do a lot of activity around the place and work closely together with all the kurdish group . ann be rightly see as a great friend of the kurdish community . while she and i do not agree on the iraq war , we be both on the record as oppose arm sale to iraq . there be not many of we who be oppose to arm sale to iraq before the war begin . i see ann as a friend and colleague , and i work closely with she as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human right . during the yeltsin period , we go on a delegation to russia to try to defend the chechen people , with the horror they be go through . ann be extremely assertive on behalf of the human right group on that . i distinctly remember sit in front of somebody who be presumably very senior in something because he have an unbelievable number of phone set out all round his desk , and ann and i be speculate about which phone lead to which person . it be her wit and humour that help to get thing through . i want to put on the record my thank to she for so much of what she do . as chair of the human right group , ann also lead we in a delegation to east timor in 2000 to witness its referendum . it be difficult , because the indonesian army be supposedly protect the integrity of the referendum , which be a strange to - do . ann , i and the late alice mahon be on a delegation , and we visit all the polling station on behalf of the un and meet many people there . for some reason that i never really understand , ann bring an amazing amount of luggage , which fill up the very small plane we go in to get there . the rest of we all become porter for ann clwyd ’s luggage — there be a lot of it , and it be very heavy . when we ask she to explain this , she say , " i do n’t think it ’ any of your business how many case i choose to bring , but it ’ very much your business that you ’ ve get to carry they . " so i say , " thank , ann — that ’ great . " but we play our part in ensure that the people of east timor , who have be through hell for decade , actually see their independence and some hope for the future . i want to say a huge thank you to ann for the friendship , for the humour , and for the steel and determination on the human right cause and all the other cause that colleague have mention . she be always a good friend to i . we often do not totally agree on everything , but we totally agree to respect each other in our disagreement , so we always get along very well indeed . that be a good example of how politic can work . i say to all her family : my condolence , and thank you for the life of ann . it be a real pleasure to follow the many tribute to ann , and particularly those from my hon . friend the member for cynon valley ( beth winter ) , who succeed she in her seat . it be also a real pleasure to have ann ’s family with we in the gallery . i want to give a few personal thought about ann . i be lucky enough to know she for decade . i first meet she when i be 15 year old as an intern in the welsh labour party headquarters , and i remember be bowl over by she speak at an event with great power , great passion and that strong sense of radicalism exemplify in so many of the comment we have hear . as often happen in politic , we can meet people when we be young and think , " wow — what an incredible figure " , but do they turn out to be that way when year later we meet they in parliament or have the privilege of work alongside they in parliament , as i do with ann ? when i be able to join ann in this place , she live up to every aspect of what i have see in she when i be a young teenager . i be ann ’s whip for a while . she have obviously have a tumultuous relationship with whip , and indeed with party leadership over many year , but all i can say be that she be always utterly courteous and pleasant , even when there be difficult issue to be discuss . it be a real pleasure to work with she . we have hear about so many different campaign that ann be involve in , include tower , the nhs , iraq and miner ' compensation , and she really do apply that campaigning zeal , expertise , tenacity , complete dedication and commitment to everything she turn her hand to . i have the particular pleasure of work with she on the committees on arms export controls . arm export be obviously a significant issue that she reflect on in many different capacity in her career . i remember work with she on the committees — i will not go into too many detail , because we be not suppose to reveal certain proceeding — and deal with a lot of shenanigan , with thing make it out into the medium and so on . ann ’s expertise and length of time in this place , have see so much of it in the past , be a great instructor to i on how to handle such situation . even amid all that , she never lose track of her clear purpose , which be to stand up for civilian affect by conflict , for child , for human right , and for basic standard and decency , even in war and conflict . ann speak passionately about that issue on the very last day that she speak in this place in the valedictory debate , which i will quote in a moment . she teach i an incredible amount about stick to principle , drive forward and fight through difficult political situation . ann serve as an mep before come into this place . i spend a lot of time with she here during the brexit debate , which as we all know be tumultuous , tiring and try at time . ann never lose sense of her principle and what she stand for . my hon . friend the member for caerphilly ( wayne david ) talk about how ann stick to her principle and be very tough , but she be truly an internationalist . she be never afraid to tell it as it be in this place when she think other be get it right rather than we . in that valedictory debate , she say : " there be other reason why i be pleased that i go there first " — refer to the european parliament . " i have to say that it be a cultural shock for i to come here , because i have not realise how delusional people here be . i will tell you why . it be because we give the impression that we do everything well than everybody else , when in fact there be many example of other country do thing well than we do , and i be pleased to have have the opportunity of experience that . " — [ official report , 5 november 2019 ; vol . 667 , c. 699 . ] ann be deeply and passionately welsh and british . she be proud of our country and what we do in the world when we be at our good , but she be also not afraid to tell it as it be and to question and criticise , whether on domestic or international issue or on so many of the other cause that she go for . how she speak in that last debate really sum she up . ann be a tireless advocate for , and regularly speak to i about , human right in a whole series of country , from türkiye to east timor , as the right hon . member for islington north ( jeremy corbyn ) mention . she fight for child in the terrible conflict in syria in recent decade . she proudly speak up alongside other dear depart colleague such as jo cox and other in those crucial debate about the situation for child in syria . despite all that international work , she never lose sight at all of the centrality of her constituency . i sit down with her couple of year ago after she have retire , and she talk with encyclopaedic knowledge about the phurnacite plant and everything that go on with her campaign on that in the constituency . she tell i that at one point it be the most polluting plant in western europe . she be resolute in her desire to fight for well air quality and standard for her constituent . she be not satisfied when the plant have close , but fight for the clean - up and the return of greenery and wildlife to that site . that sum she up . ann help , stand up for and advocate for so many people , particularly individual detain abroad or who have their human right violate . that may have be speak up for nazanin zaghari - ratcliffe or other detain in a whole series of situation , though i would not want to breach any confidence . ann be always on the phone to i about my own constituent who she work bravely and tenaciously to support . i be sure that ann ’s advocacy and campaigning touch hundred and possibly thousand of people , and possibly change their life . they may not ever know that , but she do . i want to reflect on what a wonderful woman ann be to spend time with privately . after she retire from this place i have the pleasure of spend a number of evening , lunch and chat with ann at her home . she would invite i over , and we would talk and gossip about politic and what be go on in here . we would get into some serious conversation about different issue and campaign . she talk from her vast experience , but we also talk about her cat — she have story about every one of they . i be a cat lover and , as the hon . member for strangford ( jim shannon ) point out , ann have a deep love of animal and have serious compassion for they . she tell story about their personality and how they act . she be incredibly proud of they . that show that human and compassionate side of her character . i remember stumble into ann ’s house one evening . i do not know what have be go on but i have be run from one event to another . i have not eat and i be look a bit pasty . i walk in and ann , who be not in the good of health at that stage , get up and say , " stephen , i ’ll make you a chop , i ’ll put some vegetable on and make you dinner . " she cook dinner for i and make sure i be feed and water . that be a testament to the kind of person she be . ann be a remarkable woman . she will be miss by many , not just for her incredible campaigning internationally , nationally and for her constituent , but for her friendship , companionship , mentorship and inspiration to many of we in this place from different decade , different political persuasion and different part of our own labour movement . we have hear today some of the story that show why she mean so much to so many of we . i congratulate the hon . member for cynon valley ( beth winter ) on secure the debate . it be a privilege to celebrate the contribution of her predecessor , the right hon . ann clwyd , the former member of parliament for cynon valley , who sadly pass away in july , age 86 . ann be not just a public servant ; she be also a great ambassador , whose dedication to her constituent and commitment to the value of justice and compassion have leave a significant positive impact on many people ’s life . she be bear in flintshire on 21 march 1937 to parent gwilym and elizabeth . ann be educate at halkyn primary school , holywell grammar school , the queen ’s school , chester , and university college bangor before become a student teacher at hope school in flintshire . she move on to become a bbc studio manager , freelance reporter and producer , and then a journalist for the guardian and the observer . as we have hear , she be a major advocate for the welsh language . she campaign to secure important funding to support it . in fact , i believe she could only speak welsh until the age of five . she always make sure she take the parliamentary oath yn cymraeg . in 1963 , ann marry owen roberts , a television director and producer . ann ’s journey in politic span several decade , during which she consistently demonstrate her resilience , integrity and genuine concern for the wellbeing of her constituent . have join the labour party in 1968 , she first stand for parliament in 1970 in my part of the world , the old constituency of denbigh . she then contest gloucester in 1974 before be elect as a member of the european parliament for mid and west wales from 1979 - 84 . while put together these word , i realise that she would have serve alongside my relative beata brookes , the former mep for north wales . then , in a by - election in may 1984 , she become the member of parliament for the cynon valley , become , as we have hear , the first female mp to a hold a seat in the south wales valley . that be a seat she hold until she stand down in 2019 . in total , she serve 35 year in this place and be therefore wales ’s long - serve female mp to date . she be also , i believe , the old woman to have sit in the house of commons . between 1987 and 1995 , ann be opposition front bench spokesperson for woman , education , overseas development and co - operation , wales , national heritage , employment and foreign affair . during that period , she be , as we have hear , sack on two occasion for choose not to toe the party line , an indication that she be independently minded and not afraid to put her principle above all else . indeed , her autobiography be entitle , " rebel with a cause " . one of the most commendable aspect of ann clwyd ’s political career be her relentless pursuit of social justice . she champion human right , advocate for those who often have no voice . her work as the shadow secretary of state for international development and her role as the chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group demonstrate her dedication to improve the life of people in both her constituency and around the world . in 1994 , she stag a 27 - day sit - in at tower colliery , near hirwaun , in protest at british coal ’s decision to close the last deep pit in wales . the miner , of course , pool their redundancy money to take it over and it go on to produce coal until 2008 . in 2003 , the then government move to amend the exist law on female circumcision — the prohibition of female circumcision act 1985 — after a private member ’s bill be introduce by ann . the female genital mutilation act 2003 increase the maximum penalty from five to 14 year in jail . ann consistently campaign for healthcare reform , and for well resourcing of the nhs . she work to improve patient care , fight for well working condition for nhs professional and increase transparency in the healthcare system . she be appoint by the then prime minister david cameron to lead a review on complaint procedure in the nhs follow the death of her own husband , owen roberts . while lead that review , she raise some difficult but honest concern about healthcare in wales . her role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia help to ensure that those affect by that devastating condition receive the support and care that they deserve . ann clwyd be not just a leader in her own right ; she be also a strong supporter of woman ’s right and gender equality . her work in that area pave the way for great gender representation in politic , and have inspire many young woman to pursue career in public service . her legacy in this regard be a testament to her desire for create a more inclusive and equitable society . she be make a privy counsellor in 2004 . throughout her career , ann clwyd ’s ability to connect with people from all walk of life , listen to their concern and take action on their behalf earn she the respect and admiration of her constituent and colleague alike — and we have certainly hear plenty of example of that this evening . i serve in the house alongside ann between 2015 and 2017 , and enjoy my occasional conversation with she about the nhs and our share connection in north wales . she be personable , passionate and forthright . i understand that a public service to remember ann ’s life and work will be hold at 2 pm on 13 october at st elvan ’s church in aberdare . i have no doubt that her legacy will continue to inspire many for generation to come .