i draw the house ’s attention to my entry in the register of members ' financial interests . i want to raise a few issue , all of which i know be very much on my constituent ' mind . first , i want to emphasise the importance of ensure that borough such as reigate and banstead , which have be manage well and be not load with debt , be not leave foot the bill for the failure of other council that have be less prudent with their finance . reigate and banstead borough council have a commendably strong record of financial prudence , so please will the secretary of state reassure my constituent that protection will be put in place to safeguard our community asset , such as the harlequin theatre , and our community and leisure centre ? on the harlequin theatre specifically , i emphasise how important the asset be to the people of redhill and beyond . it have now be close for more than two year , follow the discovery of raac , and resident and community group — notably , the harlequin support group — have be resolutely campaign for its repair and reopen . i be delighted that , under the leadership of councillor shelly newton , who be one of the most tenacious local councillor i have ever come across , it have now be confirm that the £ 4.5 million need for repair have be allocate . all be well , the theatre be expect to reopen by christmas 2026 . i mention that because my constituent would appreciate hear directly from the secretary of state and ministers that the local government reorganisation will not hamper such project , which have be agree but will take some time to complete . i also make the point that the reorganisation be not the only challenge face by reigate and banstead borough council , which have just have its housing target more than double by this government , at a time of great uncertainty and transition — a recipe for disaster . i want to focus mainly , however , on the future of the civic mayoralty in reigate and banstead . reigate have have a mayor since 1863 . great history and tradition be associate with the role , and the importance place on it can be see physically in the mayoral robe , the chain of office and the mace , which be still very much in use . the government have be clear that their intention with the bill be to provide a consistent model for how local government will be structure across england . what be rather less clear — i hope that the minister or secretary of state will be able to provide clarity — be what that mean for borough such as mine , where a borough council be intermeshe with a long - stand tradition of civic leadership in the form of a borough mayor . unlike metro mayor , the mayor of the borough of reigate and banstead be no kind of political executive . the role be that of a civic figurehead , non - partisan , ceremonial and community focus . we have a truly outstanding mayor , councillor rich michalowski , and , before he , councillor eddie hughes be another dedicated and hard - work public servant . in the past civic year alone , the mayor respond to more than 350 engagement request , host 25 town hall tour for school and community group , and oversee 32 civic and charity event attend by nearly 1,500 people , not include the thousand more who attend remembrance sunday . the position of borough mayor do real , practical good . their attendance at an event bring that extra sparkle , which resident so appreciate . through the mayor ’s trust fund , 38 family in my constituency have already be support with grant this year . a single funding workshop lead by the mayor ’s team unlock more than £ 50,000 for local charity . through sustained community engagement , the mayor help connect employer with jobseeker , donor with good cause , and school with mentor . they promote local artist , support care home , champion the armed force covenant , and offer practical help to resident in crisis . i hope that ministers will agree with my constituent in recognise the great value of a borough mayor , and that they will provide clarity on whether such role will be preserve under the bill and , if so , how in practical term that will be achieve .