i begin by thank you , mr deputy speaker , and mr speaker ’s whole team for all your support this year . it have be much appreciated . speak in the second sir david amess summer adjournment debate be a huge privilege for i . it be wonderful to hear so many warm wish and memory , which i know be of great comfort to lady amess and the whole family . many people have say to i , " when be a plaque go to go up in this chamber to commemorate sir david ? " . i be delighted to tell the house that that plaque have now be design . it be nearly ready . i know we be not allow to use prop , and i will not , but i want to tell the house that if anyone want to come and see the plaque , it be extremely beautiful . i have a copy on the bench here . the motto say , " his light remain " , which i think be incredibly apt . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] i must start by say how delighted sir david would have be that the boundary commission have decide not to break up his beloved southend west constituency , and i be delighted that i will continue to represent the people of the eastwood and st laurence ward . i look forward to add the people from st lukes ward . our new outstanding sport reporter at the echo , chris phillips , recently play tennis for 11 hour non - stop to raise money for south east and central essex mind , raise £ 12,000 . that take his total fundraising to more than £ 100,000 . he be a community hero . it be also wonderful to know that leigh - on - sea will be recognise in our constituency name . it be , after all , name in the domesday book . i must declare an interest , because it be where i be bear . next , i must highlight our great success in the may election . sir david would have love the fact that we now have 14 conservative town councillor — a comfortable majority on leigh - on - sea town council — and that we take back control of southend - on - sea city council with two new conservative councillor , include the excellent owen cartey in west leigh , who happen to be my councillor . i be also delighted this year to welcome as mayor councillor stephen habermel of chalkwell , with his choose charity havens hospices and the incredible , awe - inspire music man project , which some member hear play brilliantly again last night in college green . they recently play at no . 10 , and there be not a dry eye in the house . they be soon to come to parliament . people often ask i , " what have you be do for our constituency ? what be your priority ? " . my first priority this last year have be to make southend west safe . i be delighted that we now have 83 more police officer , three new set of knife detection pole and new cctv camera in old leigh . our pioneer operation union be not only be repeat this summer , but be roll out nationwide . thank to the inspirational julie taylor , we have blee kit available in ever more pub and club . i be particularly delighted that by work with the brilliant local policeman , inspector paul hogben , our conservative police and crime commissioner , roger hirst , and the home office , we be soon to ban nitrous oxide , and zombie knife in all their form will soon be completely outlaw in private place . that will make southend safe , and that be much to be commend . i must also commend eastwood academy which , through i , feed into the recent home office consultation . that be not all . make southend west healthy have also be a top priority , and with the support of this conservative government , my hon . friend the member for rochford and southend east ( sir james duddridge ) and my right hon . friend the member for rayleigh and wickford ( mr francois ) , we have secure the delivery of more than £ 8 million for a reconfigure a&e department at southend university hospital , more than £ 1 million for a new active discharge lounge , 11 new ambulance and 111 new ambulance staff . with other south essex colleague , we have finally secure from the secretary of state for health and social care an absolute promise that the remain £ 110 million pledge to improve our local hospital be secure , and we await an update in - scope business plan . i pay tribute to the work of those from the lady mcadden breast cancer trust who , with their knit knocker , will be return to parliament during breast cancer awareness week this autumn . thank to the work of sam batstone , we now have free suncream dispenser along some of our beach . work with chalkwell lifeguards , i have sponsor one of they myself , and i thank philip miller , the ceo of adventure island , for sponsor another . i thank everybody who work so hard in our nhs in southend west for the incredible work that they do . that be one of the reason i be campaign for a dedicated nhs medal to recognise their outstanding service , just as we already have for the police , the army , the post office and the fire service . of course , that be not all . my third priority have be to make southend west wealthy , so i be delighted we kick of the year by be give the pier of the year award . i know the pier be not in southend west , but as many member know , sir david stray right across southend in this place and in his patch . southend be already home to incredible music , theatre and art , which be why i want to see we finally become a city of culture in 2029 . i have be to at least 50 production in the past year alone , include by the brilliant love2sign choir , the southend operatic and dramatic society , leigh orpheus , cantare , the show choir and the eastwood chorale , to name but a few . we have an incredible seaside and underwater heritage , include the london shipwreck . we have five blue flag beach — the most anywhere in the east of england — and the big ferris wheel in the south - east . we have have eight seaside award , and we have a grow number of octopus , dolphin , porpoise and seal . of course , no city can prosper without a thriving local economy , which be why i be delighted to spearhead a new banking hub at leigh broadway , and to help our fisherman — osborne ’s , deal ’s and fruit of the sea — to negotiate their new fishing licence . we must have a transport system fit for a city , and with this conservative government , that be exactly what we be go to get . we now have a new bus route , 12 new state - of - the - art train , with contactless ticketing come , and upgrade to the a13 . i have be very clear that we must not lose any of our ticketing staff at any of the station in my patch . there be hero everywhere in southend west , which be why i have have to launch a community hero scheme , alongside my local paper , the echo and the leigh - on - sea news . i thank and pay tribute to their editor , chris hatton and mike guy , for their support in make this happen . already nominate by the community , we have have community hero jill allen - king , chalkwell lifeguards , the love2sign choir , anne thurgood , sharon gatland , brenda barnes , claire harper , steve ellis , jack venturini , david dutton , bob haze and 14 - year - old maryse fisher , with many other to come . of course , that be not all . in time - honour fashion , i must also recognise the work of the bluetits , southend against sewage and all 29 of our local headteacher . with 28 of our 29 school be good or outstanding , i welcome wholeheartedly the £ 78.6 billion of record funding for our school .