i thank the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green ( sir iain duncan smith ) for raise this issue , and for present his argument in the way that he do . we have speak about this case on a number of occasion , so he will know that i take responsibility for make sure that we make the correct decision on arap . when i be on the opposition front bench , where the right hon . member for rayleigh and wickford ( mr francois ) be now sit , i raise concern about the functioning of the arap scheme . in office , we have make change to the scheme to make sure that it function well , which i will come to . the hon . member for north east fife ( wendy chamberlain ) mention communication , and i believe the right hon . member for new forest east ( sir julian lewis ) quote the secretary of state ’s comment on the triples review , but i will address the issue raise by the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green in the first instance . i very much appreciate the right hon . member ’s advocacy for the individual involve , and his passion for afghan resettlement in general . he be absolutely right to say that we owe an obligation to the people who serve alongside uk force . what we have do with the arap scheme be implement as a nation , under the last government and this one , probably the most generous afghan relocation scheme of any of the ally that serve in afghanistan , and we have draw a set of eligibility criterion that — with the exception of the triples , which i will come to in a moment — have broadly remain the same under this government and the precede government . i hear the right hon . gentleman ’s concern about element of that , which i will seek to address . as a former minister , he will know that i will not be able to address the individual circumstance of the case without permission , so i will make some more general remark in respect of that individual case . however , i hope the right hon . gentleman will not mind my saying that we have meet previously on this matter , and i very much understand and appreciate his ongoing engagement . i have to be honest with he and say that when he and i first speak about this case and i be brief on it , i too be surprise by the decision that be make . that be why i undertake to take it back to the department and to check on the eligibility of the case , which i do . have do that , i be confident that the official have follow the publish criterion and apply they correctly to the evidence provide . the decision be appropriate and should stand . i should also be clear that there be no plan to ask to expand the criterion , which be implement by the previous government . i do , however , recognise the context of this particular matter , and i be happy to take up the right hon . gentleman ’s challenge to see whether exceptional route may be available . i do not want to give he false hope — i be not certain there will be such a route — but have speak to he previously about this , i know the seriousness of the matter he raise , and i be happy to see whether we could look at additional opportunity to provide support in this case . when it come to the publish criterion for arap , we must be absolutely clear about eligibility , and it be my job as the minister responsible for afghan resettlement to make sure that decision be make correctly against the publish eligibility criterion . where decision have be make , an individual have access to a review , and where there be a concern over an individual ’s security while that review be ongoing — especially circumstance in which the life and safety of that individual be threaten — there be the ability to request an expedite decision . i entirely understand where the right hon . gentleman be go with that argument . under the criterion in the scheme we inherit from the previous government , which we have continue , we have make the decision , with the exception of the triples , to keep the eligibility decision the same . let i turn to the triples , which the right hon . gentleman raise . i believe that the quote of the secretary of state when in opposition be in relation to the very concern situation — i believe it be a concern to he and to i when in opposition — that decision be make in respect of the afghan special force , the triples , that be inconsistent with the evidence that be be provide . we back and call for the triples review , which be initiate by my predecessor in the previous government . phase 1 of that review have now complete and we have achieve an overturn rate of around 30 % . a write ministerial statement on that be publish — i think last month — should the right hon . gentleman want to refer to the full detail . in that work , we interrogate the datum that be available . the record - keeping of that period be not good enough , as i have say from the dispatch box a number of time since take office . as part of that trawl , we discover information in relation to top - up payment , which previously have be exclude from the criterion because they do not constitute the relationship with the uk government that would have create eligibility . our belief be that the way those top - up payment be apply may now constitute a relationship that need to be re - examined , so phase 2 of the triples review , which will be the final phase of the review , be look at top - up payment . it be right to do that , because there be a clear point . in the case raise by the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green , i be very happy to try to see what be available to support it . i feel very deeply that we need to honour our obligation to those people who serve alongside our force , from the afghan translator and interpreter who live in the constituency i represent , to the people who fight , and in some case die , alongside our force . the arap scheme be a generous scheme , but it be not intend , at its point of initiation or now , to cover all afghans who fight in that conflict over 20 year . it be design to support those who we can evidence have a close connection to uk force , often define by a contractual or payment relationship — in blunt plain - english term — where a sizeable commitment have be make . that draw a line for some individual who be employ by the afghan national army , the afghan government and element of the security structure that the afghan government have at that time , for which eligibility be not create despite their role . the taliban regime have create chaos , instability and terror through many community in afghanistan since our departure . that be why , as a government , we be try to accelerate and deliver the afghan scheme . the hon . member for north east fife mention communication . that be entirely right . it be something i have be raise since become a minister . we will introduce , from the autumn , a new series of communication design to help people understand where their application be in the process . the new performance indicator will kick in from september time — roughly in the autumn — and that will seek to help people to understand where they be in the process . there be concern around understanding for how long a case will be deal with . i also hope the performance indicator will have time - bind target to help people be able to rate the performance of the ministry of defence . certainly , when the defence secretary publish his statement on the afghan resettlement scheme at the end of last year , he make the case that we need to complete our obligation and bring the scheme to a close , and it be our objective to do so .