it be a pleasure to speak during what i hope be the final stage of the bill . give that nearly all the bills on which i have speak up to now have be money bills , this business of " come back from the lords " and scrutinise lords amendment have not be part of my experience , so if i get anything wrong , i apologise . like other member , i want to begin by thank a number of people and organisation , include the mental health foundation , carnegie uk , the internet watch foundation , the national society for the prevention of cruelty to children and two researcher for the snp , aaron lucas and josh simmonds - upton , for all their work , advice , knowledge and wisdom . i also join the hon . member for pontypridd ( alex davies - jones ) and for gosport ( dame caroline dinenage ) in thank the family involve for the huge amount of time and energy — and the huge amount of themselves — that they have have to pour into the process in order to secure these change . this be the beginning of the culmination of all their hard work . it will make a difference today , and it will make a difference when the bill be enact . member in all part of the house will do what we can to continue to scrutinise its operation to ensure that it work as intend , to ensure that child be keep as safe as possible online , and to ensure that ofcom use these power to persuade platform to provide the information that they will be require to provide follow the death of a child about that child ’s use of social medium . the bill be about keep people safe . it be a different bill from the one that begin its parliamentary journey , i think , more than two year ago . i have see various minister lead from the dispatch box during that time , but the voice around the chamber have be consistent , from the conservative , labour and snp benches . all the member who have speak have agree that we want the internet to be a safe place . i be extremely glad that the government have make so many concession that the opposition party call for . i congratulate the hon . member for pontypridd on the inclusion of violence against woman and girl in the bill . she champion that in committee , and i be glad that the government have make the change . another change that the government have make relate to small high - risk platform . back in may or june last year i table amendment 80 , 81 and 82 , which call for that categorisation to be change so that it be not base just on the number of user . i think it be the hon . member for gosport who mention 4chan , and i have mention kiwi farms a number of time in the chamber . such organisation can not be allow to get away with horrific , vile content that encourage violence . they can not be allow a low bar just because they have a small number of user . the national risk register produce by the cabinet office — great bedtime read which i thoroughly recommend — state that both the risk and the likelihood of harm and the number of people on whom it will have an impact should be take into account before a decision be make . it be therefore entirely sensible for the government to take into account both the number of user , when it be a significant number , and the extremely high risk of harm cause by some of these provider .