i begin by congratulate the hon . member for bromley and biggin hill ( peter fortune ) and for calder valley ( josh fenton - glynn ) on their excellent maiden speech , which give a real flavour of their constituency and their constituent . today ’s debate highlight once again the wide issue of build safety and poverty . the safety of the building that house people and their family should not be subject to their economic status , and we must work together across the house to level the play field to provide safety for all in this country . there be clearly much work to be do to achieve this , and i be grateful to the minister for note that we will have an opportunity to far discuss this issue at a future date . it be with immense pride that i can say that in july , on my third attempt , i be elect to represent the resident of the guildford constituency , the place that have be my home for the past 25 year . in my speech at the count follow my election , i make a commitment to my resident that i will be an mp for everyone in my constituency , include those whose voice have go unheard for too long . i reiterate that promise today . i first stand for elect office in 2008 , drive by a love for my community and a deep frustration that my area of bellfields and slyfield be be fail by the conservatives . i dedicate myself to help those at risk of lose their home , work on community project and be the voice of my community fight for change in the council chamber . some 16 year later , i be here in this chamber because of my frustration follow 14 year of conservative failure that have , once again , leave community across guildford and the whole country struggle . i be also here because the people of guildford feel that too . they say , " enough be enough " , and feel that i could be their voice for change in this great chamber . i be honour by the trust they have place in i . we be here as mps to serve our resident , our constituency and our country . i hope that will always be at the forefront of our mind as we fulfil our work as mps , and particularly as we speak in this chamber and as we vote . speak of service , i would like to take a moment to acknowledge and thank my predecessor , angela richardson , anne milton and sir paul beresford , part of whose former constituency be now part of the constituency of guildford . angela and anne serve guildford , its resident and business with determination for 14 year . i thank they on behalf of our constituent . now , on to my wonderful constituency . guildford be an ancient town . the early human activity in the area be in the mesolithic era and it be mention in alfred the great ’s will from 880 ad . the name guildford mean golden ford , which come from the golden bank at the river crossing below st catherine ’s chapel , but that be not the only golden watermark in this election . in june , we see a golden tide of liberal democrat mps , with 72 elect across the country , include six of we in surrey . this victory be a message of change for our country and i be very much look forward to work with my fellow lib dem mps , particularly on the issue of special educational need and disability and thames water . as an mp , i be especially committed to address the cost of living crisis that continue to push too many people into poverty , trap by a crisis not of their own making . we must lift people out of hardship , ensure that everyone have access to the service they need , without drain their pocket . i be sure that colleague throughout the chamber will agree that the fact that over 3 million people across the uk rely on trussell trust food bank alone in 2023 - 24 be a disgrace . it be a blight on our country and it must end . guildford be not only a historical town but a modern hub of innovation , often refer to as the hollywood of the computer gaming industry , and home to many high - tech business at the cutting edge of envirotech , defence , space and more . our town be a tech hub that draw on the legacy of our constituency : ada lovelace , the mother of computing , live at horsley towers in my constituency for many year , and alan turing , whose genius continue to be honour through the alan turing institute at my alma mater , the university of surrey , have his childhood home in guildford . my constituency be also bless with breathtake natural beauty , from the stunning rhs wisley to the surrey hill and our many national trust property , include the river wey navigation , which the national trust also manage . as mp , i be commit to balance the continue evolution and success of my town and surround village with protect the natural beauty of my constituency for generation to come . that be why i will be champion in the house the cause of clean up our river . the river wey , which flow through the heart of guildford town and through the village to the east of my constituency , have be the lifeblood of guildford for century . it be central to guildford ’s identity , its history , resident ' leisure time and its future . the level of pollution be record in our river month after month be disgusting , and that be impact the health of nature , animal and resident . it be time to clean up our river and bring to an end the story i hear too often on the doorstep , about resident become unwell after go in the water . as one example , i meet the coach of a child ’s cricket team early this year who share how , in 2023 , his young team go for an end of season celebratory dip in the river wey . every single one of those child become ill after go in the river . i will end with two final thought . the first come from my time study music at the university of surrey . it teach i the importance of harmony , both in art and in life . it be my sincere hope that together in this chamber , over the come year , we can create a symphony of voice , change the divisive rhetoric of the last few year and restore public trust in politic and politician . if we do not , i worry about the future we leave for future generation . finally , i want to express my deep gratitude to my friend and family , particularly my husband , chris , and my son , reuben and josh , who have support i every step of the journey to this place and continue to walk it with i . without their love , encouragement and occasional campaigning skill i would not be here today . slanderous ! i stand here , honour beyond belief , to represent the great town of burnley , padiham and brierfield — town that be part of the story of our nation . this be the land of dramatic sandstone avenue , of hill and sky , of romantic scenery in the shadow of pendle hill . this be the land of regimented urban landscape , of terrace top and tower nestle among chimney and waterway , cushion by village , farm , country pub and proper pint . we be england and lancastrian and we be proud . burnley , the " meadow by the brun " , first record in the 12th century , have long be a hub of culture and commerce . we have a 13th - century market , the 14th - century towneley hall play , and the 15th - century st peter ’s church . indeed , come over the moor from the wrong side of the pennines , charlotte brontë visit gawthorpe hall in padiham , wordsworth write of the site of pendle hill , and burnley ’s most prolific poet , henry houlding , lead a literary renaissance for northern town in the 19th century . once the epicentre of the global cotton trade , the worker of our town build this country . it be say at its height that burnley ’s cotton industry have clothe britain by breakfast and the rest of the world by dinner . we be a birthplace of movement , too — suffragette such as margaret aldersley , and fighter , leader and thinker . non - conformist be we — radical and reformer — and once the seat of a labour leader no less in arthur henderson . i say all this because i want to stress that our story do not start or end with the mill . loom for a long time be our tool . in our hand be the industrial world make , but now we be so much more . we do not buy the standard story of decline . we be a place determine , with eye focus on the future , hungry to play our part . by the way , we have no great example of burnley endurance and enterprise than burnley football club . yes , sometimes in the face of emotional trauma — at time extreme — they be twice champion of england and one - time winner of the fa cup . let i say , i believe for the first time ever in this house , " up the clarets ! " as town , we be now a thriving , dynamic , multicultural symbol of renewal and creativity . to be make in east lancashire be to be a benchmark of quality , particularly in our manufacturing , aerospace science and cultural industry , with world - beat , amazing , innovative company put we on the map . we be also unusual politically , in that the constituency have be represent by all three major party in the past 10 year alone , although i hope to bring a very lengthy period of stability in that regard . burnley , padiham and brierfield be so often paint as town with problem and extensive poverty , which be true , but to end our description there be to misunderstand our mindset , our mission , our sense of history and community . our fight be not in trading narrative as to how we get here . we have problem , yes , but we do not simply retreat to the warm nostalgia of our history . we know that that way lie only stagnation . our fight be in create solution for tomorrow . less interested in rhetoric , storytelling and ideology , town such as mine want outcome . for we , one ’s ability to deliver solution mean a lot more than the colour of a rosette . outcome be what matter . what be good be what work . in our public service , that mean dependable quality , transparency , choice , the interest of user come first and an approach that challenge every vest interest in the public interest . reflect on this mantra and the debate today , i want to talk a little about our housing stock . first raise by my predecessor , peter pike , in his maiden speech of 1983 , the once proud regiment sandstone avenue that i speak of early — once a step up for family — be now in a poor and worsen state . too many of my constituent live in substandard , under - insulate , cold and mouldy home . low land value lock out investment , but , more critically , lock out family from the decent accommodation that they deserve and write off whole community as just not worth the investment . if we be to continue to thrive we need more housing , new housing , more social housing and a decent retrofit programme not see on a scale since the last labour government . it be only through that growth that we can achieve the sort of improvement in our public service that we need . that be the only way that we will attract the secure job and dynamic workforce of the future . too many of our young people be stick in a generational cycle of worklessness , which hold back entire family , because of a lack of opportunity , skill , connectivity and , actually , confidence . we will only truly grow as a country when people in place like ours feel that growth touch they ; when prosperity reach the doorstep of our terrace ; when we break the cycle and say , " if you have the will , we will give you the way . no one leave behind . " in my time here , i hope to represent to the good of my ability those value and ambition . at this juncture , as be tradition , i pay tribute to my predecessor : in burnley and padiham , antony higginbotham ; and in brierfield and nelson east , andrew stephenson . both very decent and hard - work man , they campaign on many local issue in their year in this house , and have many friend across the house , which be testament to their character . i genuinely wish they both well for the future . i be the great - grandson of irish immigrant , from dublin and across ireland , who make their life in manchester . i be age two , and one of two kid to a single mum , when labour take office in 1997 . it be because of that government that my mother be support through illness to raise we , by an nhs with the time and resource to care . scheme such as building schools for the future , first praise by my predecessor kitty ussher in her maiden speech in 2005 , give i this future , and i be one of many . we stand on the shoulder of giant in this place , but i be able to climb on to those shoulder only because of a supportive family , who be watch from the gallery , and the ladder that that labour government provide for kid like i and family like mine , from town like mine . i know that this new labour government will strive to do the same , and i for one be enormously proud to be a part of it . i start by congratulate the hon . member for bromley and biggin hill ( peter fortune ) , my hon . friend the member for calder valley ( josh fenton - glynn ) , the hon . member for guildford ( zöe franklin ) , my hon . friend the member for burnley ( oliver ryan ) and the hon . member for chippenham ( sarah gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speech . it be great to start my time in this place by prove no few than five colleague wrong about their constituency be the good , because obviously that be an award that belong to the people of milton keynes north . this be such an important debate on an issue that affect many of my constituent and those of other members represent milton keynes . i be glad to hear that this government will work to ensure that everyone feel safe in their home . as the brother of one of our brave local firefighter in milton keynes , i echo the comment of many colleague who pay tribute to those in our emergency service who have deal with such incident . i hope that they have to deal with far few in future . it be an immense honour to stand here today as the new mp for milton keynes north . i be deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of milton keynes but many of the beautiful village and historic town around which it be build . in my constituency lie the old market town of olney , where 250 year ago the timeless hymn " amazing grace " be pen . there be wolverton , which boast the old operational railway work in the world ; stony stratford , where i be tell the term " cock and bull story " originate — thankfully not something we be know for in this place — and newport pagnell , which for over half a century host the headquarters of aston martin . next week mark 60 year since the release of the film " goldfinger " , in which the most famous car in the world , the db5 , make its debut . last week , i have the pleasure to visit aston martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of " on her majesty ’s secret service " be film . can i promise that my contribution in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenaline of those film ? no , i can not , but as the mp represent town with such fascinating past , i promise that i will fight to give they all an even bright future . i start by pay tribute to my predecessor , ben everitt . he work tirelessly to try to secure a much need woman ’s and child ’s hospital for milton keynes . as we now have some of the long nhs waiting list in the country , it be an important campaign , and i will be sure to take up its rein . he also chair the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which look at how we fix the break planning system — some of the issue have be discuss today . i hope that this new government take forward many of the recommendation that emerge from that work as we strive to build the 1.5 million new home that this country need . i would like to take a moment to mention my labour predecessor and friend , the late brian white . brian be a true champion of milton keynes . he see the potential in our city long before it be fully realise and , as an mp , local councillor and later mayor , brian be a tireless advocate for our community . he be never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of we who know he can attest . one of those battle be the successful fight to keep the law in this place write on vellum . unfortunately , we have since move to a compromise position where only the front cover of each act be print that way , but since the only remain vellum manufacturer in the country , william cowley , be base in my constituency , i will fight with everything i can to keep what be leave of this important 175 - year - old tradition . as the first mp for milton keynes who be bear , and grow up , there , i would like to talk about the many man and woman who build the new town — now city — that i call home . one in particular be fred roche , the man who lead the milton keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromise vision . the mantra that everybody on that team live by be , " make no little plan " . fred be a streetfighter , who more than anything else be willing to do what be need to achieve something that many other have consider impossible : get money out of the treasury . allegedly , he insist on construct the outer road of milton keynes first , make it hard for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those work on hs2 wish they have think of . he also once march into whitehall on christmas eve and refuse to leave until his budget be approve . i just mention to the government front bench that those be tactic i will not rule out use in the future . [ laughter . ] for member across the chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visit milton keynes , what fred and his team build be nothing short of a masterpiece . at time when family right across our country be live in substandard condition — many would echo some of the comment we have hear today — and many be live without even an indoor toilet , milton keynes offer a beacon of hope . high - quality home be build for ten of thousand of new resident and , at its peak , 10 family be move in every single day . in just a few decade , what be once a vision on a planner ’s desk have transform into one of the uk ’s most dynamic economic powerhouse . today , we be home to santander uk , one of the big bank in the country , and red bull racing , the fast formula 1 team on the planet — when i speak to aston martin last week , it tell i to take out that line . the city of pioneer and innovator create more start - up than almost anywhere else , boast a grow tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and rank as one of the most productive place in the country . for every pound that fred do manage to squeeze out of the treasury ’s tight grasp , we have repay it many , many time over . and while it may be know for its concrete cow , it be far from a concrete jungle . some 40 % of our city be comprise of green space . alongside those be our beautiful lake , river and canal . every child , include i , grow up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . it be say that plant a tree be one of the great act of altruism . we dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generation to come . fred roche and the team plant more than a fair few tree . in fact , milton keynes boast over 22 million tree , more than 80 per person . but i would argue that build a new town be an even great act of altruism . fred pass away a few year before i be bear , but i stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefit from his vision . thank to fred ’s design , my young parent be able to scrape together enough to raise i and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . the dream of home ownership become a reality for they , provide we with the security and stability need for the good start in life . the park and green space they create back then may one day be enjoy by my own child . now , i will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenge , one i will work tirelessly to address in this place , but milton keynes be build on that new town promise of good job , public service that be there when you need they , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new home . it be a place that give i the opportunity , so that i could one day be stand here , give my maiden speech in the house of commons . i mention that because in my short time in politic i have notice that too often people search for excuse to oppose new development . there be a view , or have be a view , that it be more politically convenient to be a voice that yell no , rather than a voice that search for way to say yes . and while the acronym " nimby " may be a modern invention , the sentiment be not . glance through hansard of the ' 60 and ' 70 , we find countless example of opposition to the building of my hometown . but there be consequence to that short - term political thinking . if it be not for fred and the milton keynes development corporation team ’s ambition , back by the 1960s labour government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and i grow up in would never have exist . as a proud son of milton keynes , i can think of no mission more important for this new government than to build the new town and new home that this country need . it will require we to embrace the spirit of fred roche — visionary , unyielde in the face of opposition , and make no little plan — but it will allow we to build a future where every child in britain have the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurture their potential , as mine do for i . i congratulate everyone on their maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the members for calder valley ( josh fenton - glynn ) , for burnley ( oliver ryan ) , for milton keynes north ( chris curtis ) and for cowdenbeath and kirkcaldy ( melanie ward ) , and the hon . member for bromley and biggin hill ( peter fortune ) , for guildford ( zöe franklin ) and for chippenham ( sarah gibson ) . i represent the new constituency of penrith and solway , which take in part of the old carlisle , copeland , workington , and penrith and the border constituency . i therefore follow some truly great parliamentarian : willie whitelaw , a pillar of strength behind the thatcher government ; david maclean , lord blencathra , who now excel in the tradition of likeable nuisance in the other place ; baroness sue hayman , a champion of farming and rural affair whose skill will be put to good use on the labour benches ; sir tony cunningham , a family friend ; my father , a fine mentor ; rory stewart , who now entertain members , at least on the labour benches ; dr neil hudson , who have be re - elect as the member for epping forest ; and mark jenkinson , who represent workington from 2019 to 2024 — i may have profoundly disagree with he , but i must confess that he work hard for his constituent . i find myself slightly in awe at those member whose predecessor have disappear into the sunset . i will be see mine on a regular basis , but i promise to take any advice from they with grace . like the hon . member for epping forest ( dr hudson ) , i have the privilege of represent a constituency in which i grow up . my grandfather bring my family to cumbria in the 1950 , and his work as an engineer see he on the platform for the opening of calder hall , the world ’s first full - scale commercial nuclear power station . my family ’s love of cumbria and the lake district have endure ever since . i have have the pleasure of represent my home of keswick on town and district council and , more recently , on the new cumberland unitary authority . i step down from that council know that my former colleague will do their good to ensure that a challenging local government reorganisation be a success . as i begin my time in this place , i leave behind my work in the electrical contracting industry and my career as a contract manager — a role that see i work with many people in leasehold block management . it therefore seem apt that i make my maiden speech in this important debate . as a former electrician , it be not lose on i that the tragic event that unfold at grenfell tower be trigger by an electrical fault . it be now imperative that the sequence of event that follow set the ground for long - last reform that ensure these thing can never happen again . i commend the decision to create the building safety regulator , with its focus on high - risk building . while many member rightly push for reform of the leasehold system and extend the right to manage , i hope the new regulator act as a defence against those whose only concern be keep build management cost down . winston churchill once say : " if you put two economist in a room , you get two opinion , unless one of they be lord keynes , in which case you get three opinion . " when it come to the interpretation of british standard affect electrical safety and fire safety , my view be that if you put two electrician in a room , you will get two opinion , but if you put the bill payer in the room with they , you will only get one . the regulator should ensure that any new rule be unambiguous and can be apply consistently . i have hear a number of maiden speech and do not wish to get into the unwinnable debate about whose constituency be the most beautiful . i will just take it as give that my constituency that take in the solway coast national landscape , part of the north pennines national landscape and , not least , the north lake district , include the borrowdale valley , for which i have a deep love , be undoubtedly in the top 10 . however , the real beauty of my constituency be not in its architecture , coastline , lake or hill ; it be in the people . when i be first elect as a councillor , i be take aside by an experienced and recently retire parish clerk , who have a message for i : " it be n’t politician who run thing around here — it be the community . " she be right . i be in constant awe of the tireless effort that volunteer show in my community every day : the mountain rescue team , who keep we safe on the fell ; the maryport rescue volunteer , who run the independent lifeboat service on the solway coast ; the flood action group , who hold our flood authority to account ; our community - lead housing trust , who excel in deliver home in rural community , where large housing association fail ; the community group in ireby , hesket newmarket and nenthead , fundraise to save vital community facility at the heart of their village ; our food hub volunteer ; church together , the lions , the rotarians and all the other group that give so much . they inspire i , and this politician ’s job must surely be to help they flourish . i head back to my constituency for the conference recess know that i have many issue to tackle . the old court house in cockermouth , already half collapse into the river cocker , lie empty , with little progress be make by its owner and other authority to make it safe . resident of penrith have be plague for many year by a revolting odour from a local meat rendering plant . the infamous " penrith pong " have be particularly strong over the summer month . rural home , many lack modern home insulation , be in desperate need of government investment to help permanently bring down energy bill . farmer be in despair , as trade deal have fail to deliver and the department for environment , food and rural affairs struggle to implement its new payment scheme . the local health service be struggle to recruit the vital staff my community need to thrive . i be here in their service and to rebuild broken britain , just as we promise we would during the election . thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i in this extremely important debate . i congratulate my hon . friend the members for crawley ( peter lamb ) and for cowdenbeath and kirkcaldy ( melanie ward ) on their touching and move speech . i really be proud to be one of the scottish delegate . in the tradition of maiden speech , i begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , deidre brock , who represent the constituency for nine year — the first woman to do so . i wish she and her team well in their future endeavour . i would also like to pay tribute to mark lazarowicz , who represent the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continue to advocate for human right , asylum seeker and the environment . the newly extend boundary once again include muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represent by the hon . member for edinburgh west ( christine jardine ) . this part of the constituency hold a special place in my heart as it neighbour west pilton , where i live and where my stepchildren go to school and attend greater pilton childcare centre during the 1990 . it be a groundbreaking facility provide family with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that i hope we can learn from and replicate . when we live in west pilton , our flat be riddle with damp . we have to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litre of water daily . our child ’s health suffer , and paint over black mould be normal . we be lucky : we be eventually able to move . however , the flat be still there , and i would suggest that the issue remain too . housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofit home . access to safe and secure home be a fundamental right , and although it be a devolved issue in scotland , we must learn lesson and work together across government to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient home for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . i also place on record my sincere thank to malcolm chisholm , who help we at this time . he represent edinburgh north and leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he move to the scottish parliament , before stand down in 2016 . he be why i join the labour party . his reputation and integrity , his achievement and his passion for the people of edinburgh north and leith be rightly still recognise , and indeed he remain an inspiration to i and many other in our community and beyond . madam deputy speaker , i think the record may have to be correct as i have hear many hon . member from across the house make an error by declare that their constituency be the great in the country . they be of course mistaken . as many of those who have already visit will know , edinburgh north and leith can surely claim that accolade . from our amazing shop on princes street , george street and the new st james quarter , as well as our fantastic independent store , we have the good retail across the country . we have world - class restaurant , cafés and bar — from the johnnie walker whisky experience , which i be pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . friend the deputy prime minister , to the lind and lime gin distiller , where my right hon . friend the prime minister be welcome , and the port of leith distillery , the country ’s first vertical distillery . i extend a welcome to all my hon . friend to visit and join i for a dram . edinburgh north and leith be steep in history from calton hill to the new town , another unesco world heritage site , and onwards to stockbridge , the home of golden wonder crisp ; newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and western harbour , reclaim from the sea . we be home to the royal yacht britannia and the royal botanic garden in inverleith . leith link have claim to be the birthplace of golf . and although the stadium be just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , hibs , be leith to the core . i can confirm that , as the song suggest , there be indeed much " sunshine on leith " , although not always on match day . our famous port of leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — have see the coming and going of ship from all over the world , bring with they story , good and people that have shape our identity . the historic landmark remind we of our rich heritage and the importance of preserve it for the future . this be evidence through our proud industrial and political history , be where rose ’s lime juice be invent to prevent sailor from get scurvy , and where salvesen have a whaling business . in the present day , our port be reinvent itself for the next generation , with the green energy job of the future and with business such as vestas and nearby nova deliver wind and tidal energy . stitch into our community be so many site of natural beauty , with the water of leith flow through the heart of our constituency and be hug by the firth of forth . with the world ’s large art festival on our doorstep , we house the scottish national portrait gallery , leith theatre , customs house , north edinburgh arts , edinburgh playhouse and the new dunard concert centre , which be currently under construction . alongside our film and music studio , we be home to many author , artist , musician and poet . i could go on , and i possibly have for too long already , but this be by no mean an exhaustive list , and it do not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . i have yet to mention what make edinburgh north and leith truly great : simply , it be our people . be elect to this house to represent my home and my community be truly the honour of my life . i would like to thank everyone who trust i with their vote . for those who do not , i hope that during my time in this place i can evidence that i will champion our home . i understand that there be so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , edinburgh be a tale of two city . too many have be leave behind and suffer through decade of neglect . poverty remain stubbornly high and be a reality for so many child . in our city , food bank have become the norm , where people already struggle to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than they . we have a housing emergency with more than 3,000 homeless people , many of whom be family with small child live in hotel room with no kitchen , resort to cooking meal each day from a kettle . we have the scourge of addiction etch on people ’s face , clear for all to see . while our public service be underfunde and break , our community be resilient . i think of people such as pauline bowie , recently honour for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteer and low - wag carer who work tirelessly each day for our community . our strength lie in the people of edinburgh north and leith , who be know for their warmth , compassion and determination . change people ’s life by offer hope be why this government be elect , and it be why we must deliver . my journey start , like all of we , before i be bear . i be bear in rottenrow maternity hospital in glasgow . yes , the house have not misheard i : there be a maternity hospital call rottenrow . when i be a baby , and before i have a voice , decision be make that would change and shape my life forever . i be lucky then , as i be now , to have people who love and nurture i . although my mum , dad and gran be no long live , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that i be in this place , as i leave school at 15 with few qualification and leave home not long after . it take i many year to find my place in this world , and i be so grateful for the love of my stepchildren david and zoe , for zak and for my wife melanie , for her love and support every day . to i , they be home . i thank all my friend , party activist , colleague and love one who have support i in my life and on my journey lead to this place . as a child grow up in the ' 80 in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seem inevitable that i would end up as a proud product of the labour and trade union movement . in my work life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to be a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the children ’s panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy have always be my passion . i have learn through life that when other give up on you , it be easy to give up on yourself . my promise to everyone in edinburgh north and leith be that i will not give up , and i will fight for everyone ’s right to thrive . i will be their voice in this place , and as be leith ’s motto , i will always persevere . may i associate myself with the previous remark regard the grenfell disaster and send my sympathy to all those affect ? i congratulate all the other member on their eloquent and informative maiden speech , especially my hon . friend the member for edinburgh north and leith ( tracy gilbert ) , with whom i will happily share probably more than a dram of whisky as we argue over the first two place for good constituency , which be , obviously , isle of wight west . first , i pay tribute to annie caddick , who win silver in the mixed double scull at the paralympics . we be all very proud of she . i also pay tribute to my predecessor bob seely for his seven year of service to the isle of wight as mp for the then large constituency in the country . his interest in all thing chinese and russian be legendary on the island . my dad be not a toolmaker , but he be a conservative councillor . [ hon . member : " ooh . " ] i have get the sympathy of everyone now , apart from those on the conservative benches . while we do not agree on politic , he and my mum ’ many year as councillor do teach i that politics be about service . it be also the reason i be stand on this side of the chamber , although there be rather more room on the opposition benches on most day . my grandad dennis , a lifelong labour supporter , would be very proud that i be stand on this side . from be the large constituency , the isle of wight be now two of the small constituency : isle of wight west and isle of wight east . i stand here as the very proud member for isle of wight west and the first - ever labour mp to represent the island . i look forward to work with my colleague , the hon . member for isle of wight east ( joe robertson ) to improve the life of all islander , although it would appear he have get the early ferry home today , so he be ahead of i . it turn out that the island be pretty good at first . in 1660 , freshwater resident robert hooke develop hooke ’s law of elasticity . in 1843 , the uk ’s first amusement park open at blackgang chine , and be still open today , albeit , for those who know it , much small , as it be slip into the sea — that be not part of the attraction , by the way . marconi establish the first wireless station on the island in 1897 , and saunders - roe build the first ever hovercraft in east cowes in 1958 . we still have a hovercraft service to this day . the first isle of wight festival be in 1968 , but in 1970 the crowd be so large that the following year an act of parliament be pass ban such large - scale gathering . the first consumer electric car — the enfield 8000 — be build in cowes . in 2009 four - year - old daisy morris discover a new specie of dinosaur — not in the council but actually on atherfield beach — know as the pterosaur . we even have our first prize - win alpaca name hip hip hooray at west wight alpacas . i be also the first owner of a chip shop to become an mp . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] there will be free pickle egg for hon . member when they come to the island . of course , we be also know for sailing . a special thank to the rnli and independent lifeboat that put their life at risk to save ours . the island be home to some fantastic produce that grace the menu and table of some great eating establishment across the country — many will have try they without even realise . there be fantastic tomato from isle of wight tomatoes , asparagus and sweetcorn from the arreton valley and harvey browns farm , beef from cheverton farm , cherry from godshill , and our own cheesemaker . we also have industry . we make blade for vestas wind turbine , we make aircraft part , and the thames clipper boat that hon . member see from the terrace be make at wight shipyard in east cowes . we have a thriving art culture . the trinity , quay arts and apollo theatre , where a young anthony minghella start his act career , be still very active . but it be the people who make the isle of wight . it be community that make it a special place to live and the envy of town and village across the country . whether it be the saturday morning tea and cake in niton , the regular event in yarmouth , the community - run sport centre in freshwater , the warm space in northwood , the volunteer at cowes food bank , the model train enthusiast who open up to the community , the amazing work of pan together in newport or the inclusivity of east cowes , as well as the many charity — a special mention to the ellen macarthur cancer trust — community be the heart of the island . when i make it to this place , isle of wight west be refer to , along with many other , as a " bonus " seat — that appear to be code for " oh , fffair play — you won!”—but we win due to the hard work over the past five year of 120 volunteer , return i as the only labour councillor and now the first labour mp for the island . i would like to thank every single one of they , but special thank must go to my agent phil attfield , whose commitment be second to none . extra special thank must go to my wife leah and my two child and grandchild for their unwavering support and for put up with i over the last few year . as rosy a picture as i paint of our wonderful island and how much we contribute to british life , we have all the same problem as coastal and rural town , include poor access to nhs dentistry , gps and adult social care , send education in crisis and a severe lack of secure and adequate home . those problem be exacerbate by our be an island . imagine be charge between £ 50 and £ 300 every time you drive to a neighbouring county — travel from derby to nottingham , from southampton to salisbury or from oxford to aylesbury would become prohibitive . ferry travel across the solent have become unreliable and ferociously expensive in the last few year , so much so that it be now a barrier to opportunity . have to rely on expensive , privately run ferry mean that school trip do not happen and nhs appointment on the mainland be miss , or patient be so worried that they travel the night before and pay for a hotel . my predecessor mention ferry 23 time in seven year , but ferry be such a huge issue to i and my constituent — i be guess my hon . friend have not realise this!—that i have promise to mention ferry and cross - solent ferry travel at every opportunity , regardless of the topic . i might even get past 23 time in this speech . [ laughter . ] i hope the house forgive i if i do . i be a husband , dad , grandad , walker of our three dog and an enthusiastic visitor to island pub . my focus while in this place will be on find solution to the issue that i have outline . my job as mp be to champion the island in this house , to ensure that i represent all my constituent and that the island be no long a forget outpost and get its fair share of support from my government , as well as action on ferry . [ laughter . ] i extend a warm invitation to everyone on the estate to visit the isle of wight , and i make a plea to ministers to visit . i spend some time in the first few week talk to the doorkeepers and security and restaurant staff . i explain that i find this place to be one of the friendly workplace i have ever step foot in — bear in mind i be self - employ . the response be that this have change as a workplace very recently . when ask how recently , they all reply , " the 5th of july . " i be extremely proud to stand here today with my colleague as part of a labour government dedicate to service , and i look forward to be part of a government who build a future for the isle of wight and the country .