what assessment he have make of the impact of raise the high - income child benefit charge threshold on household income . these change be welcome , and they mean that more lincoln family will receive more support from the government , as i tell the minister in lincoln on friday . will my hon . friend confirm when the formal consultation on base child benefit on household income rather than on individual income will commence , if the civil servant in the treasury will let he do it ? i rise to speak to new clause 4 to 7 and amendment 1 . i draw the attention of the house to my entry in the register of members ' financial interests in relation to bpi . let i at the outset say what a particular pleasure it be to listen to the maiden speech of my new hon . friend , the hon . member for kingswood ( damien egan ) . his description of his constituent ' comment to he during the by - election will chime with all on the opposition side of the house . it be clear that he will be an asset to the house , and i think it be fair to say that south london ’s loss be undoubtedly kingswood ’s gain . we support accession to the cptpp because of its geopolitical benefit and the benefit to trade , relatively limited thought they be set to be . give that the conservative party have deliver a recession , a cost of live crisis and the bad growth rate in the g7 , any uptick in trade and ultimately growth , however limited , would be welcome . there remain , however , a series of concern about the government ’s approach to the cptpp and trade deal . our amendment and new clause seek to address the weak arrangement for parliamentary scrutiny of trade deal ; the grow concern about the investor - state dispute settlement ; and issue around performer ' right , environmental , animal welfare and food standard , and the help that business will be offer to exploit the benefit , however limited , of this deal . on new clause 1 , i recognise the concern articulate by the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green ( sir iain duncan smith ) , which be echo by the right hon . member for north somerset ( sir liam fox ) , and i be sympathetic to the former ’s call for an enhanced role for parliament . i be also sympathetic to new clause 11 from the hon . member for chesham and amersham ( sarah green ) , under which parliament would require an assessment of the impact of any new country ’s join the cptpp . however , i think we need to go far than both those new clause do . labour ’s new clause 4 would require ministers to publish such an impact assessment in parliament and to give the house a vote on any new country join the cptpp . give the security issue , the impact on particular sector of the economy and on job in the uk , as well as the opportunity that an accession could bring , the british people surely have a right to expect this house to consider the merit , or lack of merit , of any new accession to the cptpp . during the lords debate , the minister say that he think that a new state join cptpp would trigger the crag process in the uk , but the crag process , as increase number of member across the house have largely come to agree , be clearly not fit for purpose ; pacac be the late committee to make that clear , in its recent report . new clause 4 provide the opportunity to reform part of that process . let i refer to what be say by the chair of the business and trade committee , my right hon . friend the member for birmingham , hodge hill ( liam byrne ) , and by the hon . member for totnes ( anthony mangnall ) and my hon . friend the member for walthamstow ( stella creasy ) . we be promise by the secretary of state and by the minister in committee that there would be a debate under the crag process , as oppose to there be just this small implement bill . we now know that the debate will not happen , so that be another broken promise on trade . the impact of new country join the cptpp will vary , but could be considerable in certain situation . it be only right that this country expect the house to consider those impact carefully . i hope that the right hon . member for chingford and woodford green , and the hon . member for totnes , and for chesham and amersham , can be persuade to support our new clause . it would achieve what they want in practice and go far . with the leave of the house , we will press our new clause to a vote . on new clause 5 , i hesitate to damage the reputation of my hon . friend the member for brighton , kemptown ( lloyd russell - moyle ) and my right hon . friend the member for hayes and harlington ( john mcdonnell ) , who make excellent speech on the isds . over the past 10 year , the marked acceleration in usage of the isds by large , litigious corporation to challenge government ' climate - relate or other environmental decision have prompt concern at the high level in the us , in european capital and at the un , so much so that government across the world be increasingly exclude or revoke the isds provision . the problem with the isds be that it be secretive ; it avoid perfectly effective domestic public legal system ; it discriminate against small and medium - sized business ; it often prevent the voice of those with a genuine interest in the decision from be hear ; and it hold back environmental and other progressive public policy change . strikingly , the oecd could find no sustained evidence that the isds be key to secure and maintain business investment . the nuffield trust ’s briefing for today ’s debate state that the isds could enable company to challenge some health regulation and nhs policy . the us , canada and the european union have all take step to revoke the isds provision in some of their major treaty . the average amount — this be just the published case — that government have be force to pay , from taxpayer ' money , be about $ 600 million for climate case . it seem even more noteworthy that the un secretary - general ’s special rapporteur on environment and human right express concern just last september that the isds be a significant threat to the net zero transition , the paris agreement and tackle climate change . some in government clearly share some of those concern , as they want to exclude the isds from the bilateral trade deal with canada , and support its abolition from trade with the european union . the minister be somewhat evasive in committee . initially , he try to duck question on why the government want to exclude the isds from a bilateral trade agreement with canada but be quite happy to leave it in the cptpp for canadian investor to use . give that ministers have sign side letter with australia and new zealand to disapply the isds between our country in the cptpp , it seem bizarre that they have not attempt a similar approach with canada . just after committee , the government confirm that they be pull out of the energy charter treaty , in which isds arrangement play a major role , say that it do not fit with net zero ambition . the minister might want to try again to explain why it be essential that we remain committed to the isds element of the cptpp . it be time for a clear - eyed assessment of the risk that the isds pose to our interest . with the leave of the house , the opposition will press new clause 5 to a vote . there continue to be significant concern about the environmental impact of accession to the cptpp , and the impact on food standard and on animal welfare . the cptpp cover two of the 11 deforestation front expect to account for 80 % of deforestation by 2030 . a range of environmental group be very concerned that when the uk join the cptpp , preferential access to our market will be create as a result of the removal of tariff on palm oil . that could increase demand for product from threatened zone and exacerbate the risk of further deforestation . minister still have not publish — never mind present to this house — deforestation due diligence legislation under section 17 of the environment act 2021 , so it be difficult to accept ministers ' claim that they be fully commit to our climate change target , and to protect important source of global biodiversity . on food standard , deep concern remain that , despite their protestation , the deal that minister have negotiate , include the cptpp , will allow into the uk ever more food produce to low standard , particularly animal welfare standard . the whole house will remember the word of the former environment secretary , the right hon . member for camborne and redruth ( george eustice ) , who tell the house that the minister and his colleague have give away " far too much for far too little”.—[official report , 14 november 2022 ; vol . 722 , c. 424 . ] when they negotiate the uk - australia free trade agreement . the royal society for the prevention of cruelty to animals and the national farmers union , in particular , have raise concern that new tariff negotiate with mexico and canada will leave farmer in the uk much more vulnerable to import egg , pork and chicken that be produce to standard that would be illegal in the uk . the pesticide action network uk raise concern acknowledge by the trade and agriculture commission — concern also raise by an hon . friend behind i — that more food produce use pesticide ban in the uk will be import into the uk new clause 7 would require ministers to publish a plan to help business benefit from the new trade deal . it be strike that the office for budget responsibility , in its recent budget analysis , make it clear that trade will make a negligible contribution to growth through to 2028 under conservative party plan . we remember that the secretary of state be appoint and within week export begin to fall . then the minister of state be reappointe to the brief and export fall even far . who could possibly have expect that to happen ? minister have cut funding for trade mission lead by business group themselves , and cut funding for small and medium - sized enterprise to get to trade show to open up new market for themselves . the government website for help exporter be so poor that some firm use other country ' website to find where there might be opportunity . minister could and should be do a whole lot well to support our business to take advantage of any benefit in trade deal . new clause 7 would require ministers , once the accession process be over , to publish a clear implementation plan to help business benefit from cptpp . preference utilisation rate for other trade deal certainly do not offer any ground for complacency . give that export under the conservative party have perform bad than every other member of the g7 bar japan over the last decade , it be strike that the chancellor have nothing to offer exporter and , strikingly , no mention of any plan to help british business exploit our come membership of cptpp in his recent budget . for those reason , i be sympathetic to new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for gordon ( richard thomson ) . on amendment 1 , as the minister know and as the hon . member for chesham and amersham set out , there remain serious doubt from industry about whether the change the bill allow for in relation to the uk ’s copyright framework be actually require . we have have different explanation for the change from ministers . at one point they be due to the cptpp . on another occasion they be be make to comply with other international treaty obligation sign decade ago . what be clear be that the change could have a significant impact on the ability of the music industry to support new british artist . because of those concern , ministers be force to bring forward a consultation on the change . the consultation will not finish until after the bill have complete its passage through both houses . in the bad - case scenario estimate by the intellectual property office , the change could cost over £ 100 million . it be likely that royal assent will have be grant before we know the outcome of the consultation process . minister be force to bring this issue forward , which i have to say be just the late example of , at good , a half - hearted approach to the scrutiny of trade issue by those on the treasury bench .