before i start my speech , i would like to pay a huge tribute to lord prescott , even though he cause great consternation to my hon . friend the member for newport east ( jessica morden ) when she be stand right behind he as general secretary of welsh labour during a certain incident in north wales . i be sure john would have welcome today ’s debate , campaign as tirelessly as he do to extend opportunity , champion worker ’s right and , as mention by the liberal democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for winchester ( dr chambers ) , open up on his own mental health . my sincere sympathy go to his family at this time . he will be sorely miss , but fondly remember . we have have a very positive and constructive debate today , in that lovely consensual way on a thursday afternoon when we look at the real issue and think how we can tackle they and what we need to do . i be pleased to respond in this debate , celebrate international men ’s day and join 80 country in mark the contribution that man make to our world . i thank my hon . friend the member for bishop auckland ( sam rushworth ) for make sure we have this opportunity . he be the vice - chair of the appg on man and boy ' issue , and now we have find out who the chair be : the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for east grinstead and uckfield ( mims davies ) . i be sure there be a great partnership there and that we will hear a great deal more from they about the priority and the thing that we need to tackle . i thank all member who have take part in the debate . we have certainly have a very thoughtful array of contribution . in particular , my hon . friend the member for bishop auckland , who open the discussion today , be man enough and brave enough to open up about his own issue and how he share those with one of his local group . so many local group and the excellent work that they have do have be mention in today ’s debate . as my hon . friend outline , some of the main issue be health , suicide , crime — whether it be commit a crime or be a victim of a crime — exclusion from school , social and cultural expectation , and the need for positive male role model . there be , of course , also a large focus on mental health , education , entertainment and the position of influencer . my hon . friend the member for brent east ( dawn butler ) mention a number of very important organisation in her constituency . she speak about prostate cancer and that pernicious issue of the subculture , incel , and the harm that it be cause . we then hear from the hon . member for broadland and fakenham ( jerome mayhew ) who mention his own excellent volunteer group , include the aylsham man ’s shed . my hon . friend the member for leyton and wanstead ( mr bailey ) talk about young man , who , when genuinely consider teenage issue such as body image and relationship in a perfectly normal way , be target by extremist with horrendous misogyny , bigotry and homophobia . they be be set against the institution that keep our society together . there be so much that we need to do in that area . as my hon . friend mention , it be about restore young man ’s hope — restore hope that they have a future — and help they to achieve their goal . my hon . friend the member for leeds central and headingley ( alex sobel ) focus very clearly on the issue of trans man and transphobia . i would just say to he that the government be absolutely committed to ensure that trans people can receive the care and support that they need when access nhs service . we frequently engage with a wide range of stakeholder in this area , include the lgbt+ health adviser , dr michael grady . my hon . friend the member for darlington ( lola mcevoy ) speak about the need for man to talk and to be able to access the service that they need . she talk about a whole range of service , right from the time of need paternity leave through to the need of veteran — the whole age range of need for support for man . my hon . friend the member for rugby ( john slinger ) talk about tackle stereotype . that remind i of a quite old - fashioned headteacher , who i once work under in a school in swansea . she say to the boy , " if you want to be in the rugby team , you must be in the choir . " that be the same sort of idea : break down the stereotype that man should not be do artistic , wonderful and creative thing as well as physical thing . my hon . friend also mention the tragedy of suicide and again talk about the organisation in his constituency that have do very good work in help man in that respect . my hon . friend the member for bracknell ( peter swallow ) talk about stereotype and the pressure of those stereotype , man ’s suicide , the need for mental health support for man and the need to encourage man to talk . the spokesperson for the liberal democrats , the hon . member for winchester ( dr chambers ) , talk about farmer and how extraordinary and welcome it be to find middle - aged farmer now open up . again , he mention the issue of prostate cancer and how , as a doctor , he would advise every man to get check . he stress the importance of be open about health and talk about it .