it be a great privilege to be call to make my maiden speech in this most important debate , and it be an honour to represent the people of amber valley in this house . i be proud to be part of a government with five mission , but my sixth mission be to put amber valley firmly on the map . any member who have have the misfortune to sit with i in the tea room will know exactly where amber valley be , because it be my practice to suffix its name with " in derbyshire " . in fact , amber valley be know as the heart of derbyshire , and deservedly so , because not only be it right in the middle of our wonderful county , but its people have the big heart . they be among the most friendly people in the world , but they be also unyielde . it be no surprise that they be descendant of those involve in the last revolution in england , the pentrich revolution of 1817 , during which a group of constituent plot an armed uprising , angry about the state of the economy and demand parliamentary reform . hon . member will understand my relief at be part of a government who be committed to make people well off and reform the house of lords . originally a mining area , the local economy have since develop a diverse industrial base . i be delighted we be drive forward our industrial strategy , so that business such as those headquarter in amber valley can thrive . firm such as thorntons chocolates , denby pottery , bowmer and kirkland , berry recycling , national gas and david nieper provide employment . the last of those company lend its name to a school in alfreton , which it oversee . that be a fine example of business support the local community . the school ’s ethos be to ensure child can raise their aspiration , break down the barrier to opportunity . that be so important for our young people in amber valley . youth service have be cut back , and the gap that have be leave be fill by the hard work and dedication of local people , such as james at ayup in alfreton , and chrissie and mikey at old farm bus in ripley marehay . i be the fourth mp for amber valley . the first , phillip oppenheim , be credit for have bring the mojito to the uk . i can not promise to do anything so exciting when i leave this place , beyond perhaps sample one or two of those in our new bar in alfreton . it be aptly name the moot bar , by virtue of its overlook the marketplace , where moot hearing , which be believe to have lead to the modern day jury system , be hold to settle dispute and try offender . it be a fitting place for a former crown prosecutor such as myself to frequent . the second mp be judy mallaber , of my party , who still make a huge contribution to our community . judy work hard for the introduction of the minimum wage . i be delighted this government be build on that legacy , increase the national living wage and introduce the big improvement of worker ’ right in a generation . most recently , amber valley be represent by nigel mills . nigel be a thoroughly decent man , who serve as a dedicated constituency mp for 14 year . he be rightly proud of be the long serving mp for amber valley . i wish he well . we have hear mention in many maiden speech of first — the first female mp , the first mp for a new constituency and even the first mp with a beard . in that spirit , i find myself look for mine . could i be the first crown prosecutor to enter parliament ? rumour have it that someone have beat i to that particular accolade . i be relieved that you be in the chair , madam deputy speaker , because i also find myself google whether i be the first mp name linsey . i hope that do not affect my chance of mr speaker call i in the future . i be , however , the first amber valley mp to have be bear in the constituency — technically . i be bear in ilkeston , a town now in neighbour erewash , but at the time ilkeston be a constituency with my three town , so i be technically bear in the constituency , but perhaps that be a lawyer ’s argument . the labour party be form to give ordinary people a voice and to improve life . my dad be david farnsworth and he would say that he be an ordinary man . he also have a catchphrase : " let i tell you a little tale . " to coin his catchphrase , i would like to tell the house a little tale about the labour party through the life of that so - call ordinary man . there have be much debate about what a work person be , but i know it when i see it : it be my dad . originally a coalminer , like so many other he go into the dark so that his child ’s light would shine . i be pleased the government be return the pension fund to miner such as my dad and the 772 former mineworker in amber valley . right that wrong be a manifesto commitment — and we be keep our promise . our life change when i be 12 and my mum margaret be diagnose with cancer . she be one of the most caring people , always put other first . her late diagnosis be a result of she not want to be a burden on our already overstretch nhs . she die less than two month later . i do not want any family in amber valley to go through that . this government will get our nhs back on its foot — we must . after my mum die and the pit close , my dad be out of work . the labour government give he the opportunity to retrain as a bricklayer . he attend what be then south east derbyshire college in heanor , in a beautiful victorian building . long since close and leave derelict , it be now be refurbish and will house small business and provide community space . together with the newly renovate marketplace , the labour - control borough council be ensure that heanor town centre will be a welcoming place for resident to visit , while boost our local economy . my dad go on to build hundred of house and , have he not retire , i be sure he would be build his fair share of the 1.5 million home that we have promise to provide within this parliament . my dad would say that he be an ordinary man . i say " would say " because he can not any more . dementia have take his voice . my wonderful stepmum kate care for he . she be one of the 5.2 million unpaid carer in the uk . i be glad that this government be improve carer ’s allowance , but we must go far and create a national care service . my dad would say that he be an ordinary man . i say that he be extraordinary , for it be his value and guidance that have lead i to this place . my upbringing instill in i a drive — a drive to make society fairer . that lead i to serve as a crown prosecutor for 21 year , work to secure justice for victim . it be , until my election to this place , the great honour of my life . i intend to continue to fight for justice , to fight for those suffer injustice and to use my voice for the people of amber valley . my goal to combat injustice extend particularly to the people of ukraine . i visit ukraine in september with fellow labour mps . we see the human suffering of war : the home destroy , the child ’s cardiology hospital bomb while young child be on the operating table , the cellar of a school where civilian be hold captive by russian troop in the most appalling condition . ukraine be defend herself , but she be also defend we , our value and our freedom . we must do everything we can to support ukraine both now and for the rebuild after the conflict be over , and i fully support the bill . we must deliver on our promise to rebuild trust in politic and show that it can be a force for good . my child have give i the affectionate nickname , " the vicious dictator " . i be not sure whether i be well place to lead on this , but i shall try . i promise , madam deputy speaker , that my home be not a dictatorship , but it can be see through a political lens . my eld son once make a placard at bedtime with the slogan , " we want another story and we want it now " . he be a strong campaigner even at the tender age of 10 — he be now 17 . my young son be an effective lobbyist , as his collection of trainer will attest . my stepdaughter be chief whip , manage to bring together the boy even in the most challenging of debate . my brilliant husband martin make a wonderful speaker of our house , keep order and hold it all together . we all know that politics be all - consume and hugely onerous on family . the love , understanding and support that martin and our child have give i have be integral to my be in this place . no maiden speech for amber valley would be complete without mention butterley engineering , around which the town of ripley be found . sadly no long open , it leave behind a blast furnace wall and an underground wharf , both now schedule monument . friend of butterley ironworks trust be hop to turn this heritage into good use with a visitor ' centre . i will happily support they with that . butterley ironworks may be go , but there be a reminder for i twice weekly , as i walk under the iron arch in st pancras train station and pass the sign that read , " manufacture by the butterley company , derbyshire , 1867 " . the majesty of those iron arch be a constant link between represent amber valley in this place and the people responsible for send i here , who i thank greatly and promise to serve in the spirit of the amber valley motto , " per laborem progredimur”—"we progress through hard work " .