i will be brief , but i be very pleased to be able to speak in this debate as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the chagos island , which last week have its 103rd meeting . it have be ably support by david snoxell , the former british high commissioner to mauritius , who have do incredible work with his knowledge of and empathy for the chagossian people . there be two former chair of the group in the committee at the moment — the hon . member for romford ( andrew rosindell ) and for wythenshawe and sale east ( mike kane)—and the former member for crawley be also chair of the group at one time . we found that group a long time ago to listen to , and take action in support of , the chagos islander , who be angry that they have be forcibly remove from their home , angry at the way they have be treat by successive british government , and very angry at the initial decision that be take and the sheer brutality that go with it . to give member a brief example , in 1973 a 20 - year - old chagossian woman , liseby elysé , while carry her unborn child , be forcibly remove from the chagos island of peros banhos . she lose her unborn child soon after her traumatic upheaval and the journey , and she and her husband survive with considerable uncertainty and in very precarious living condition , like all other chagossians . however , 45 year later , in 2018 , she represent her community at the hague when she speak about her life and her loss . her story be compelling and memorable , like those of so many other chagos islander , because of the personal horror , trauma and abuse that they suffer . they have always demand and fight for their right of return , and that be the central core of what the all - party parliamentary group on the chagos island have do . i realise there be now different opinion in the group about the sovereignty or otherwise of the island , but there have always be a fundamental agreement on the right of return . that lead to massive legal action , which be bravely fight by the chagos islander with very little support . there be a few people such as richard gifford , their solicitor , who be fantastic in their support . eventually , we gather wide support , and we get favourable decision at all level of justice around the world , include at the united nations general assembly . it be worth recall , as many member have do , the 1965 decision make by harold wilson , then prime minister . in offer mauritius its independence , he come to this extraordinarily complicated deal , which essentially involve the united states get a base on diego garcia and , in return , mauritius get its independence . somewhere along the line , as the hon . member for east wiltshire ( danny kruger ) point out , there would either be a discount on the next generation of nuclear weapon , or free delivery of weapon at some point in the future . a lot of this be shroud in mystery , in the private conversation between wilson and prime minister ramgoolam at the time , so there be a lot of confusion surround that . somewhere at that time the idea be to set up the british indian ocean territory , and somewhere at that time the decision be make that the archipelago — include peros banhos , which be a considerable distance from diego garcia — would be separate from mauritius as well and that it would have to be depopulate , hence the utter brutality of the removal of the entire population from the island . so the question that many member have bring up be this : should the chagos island be separate from mauritius or part of mauritius ? interestingly , during the 1965 discussion mauritius never accept the separation . it never accept that the chagos island should be separate either constitutionally or in any other way from mauritius . as we know , the decision be basically force on the mauritians in return for their independence . we now have a situation in which we have finally get a treaty . it have its imperfection — of that everyone be agree . personally , i be less than happy about the idea of a massive military base on diego garcia , and even less happy that it might be there in 100 year ' time . however , a treaty have be agree that will ensure the right of chagos islander to return to the chagos island , but unfortunately only a limited right of return to diego garcia itself . i be look forward to the minister ’s speech , and i would be grateful if be able to say a bit more about the right of access to diego garcia for chagos islander , their right to visit the church and the graf of their ancestor , and whether there be some possibility of a degree of residence on diego garcia . there be no other place in the world where a military base be surround by an entirely depopulated area , in this case an island , and i would be grateful if the minister be able to say something about that . we have fight for the right of return . i fully understand that chagos islander — some resident here , some in the seychelles , many in mauritius , and other in a diaspora all around the world , in france and many other place — probably all have different view and different memory , but in the survey that be do when this issue be discuss at great length about 10 year ago , they be all in favour of the right of return . the issue of sovereignty under mauritius be not really a great feature of those discussion , although it appear to be now . we should listen to the chagos refugees group , base in mauritius and lead brilliantly by olivier bancoult , who have be through every court case . indeed , he start the whole process of demand the right of return , which have eventually be successfully achieve . the statement that the chagos refugees group make last week say : " the agreement therefore meet the aim of our community to be reunite with our islands . it have be conclude after nearly 3 year of negotiation between mauritius and the uk and extensive consultation . unless , therefore , the agreement be approve and implement , our exile will continue with no hope of restore our fundamental human right to return . it be the creation of biot on 8 june 1965 , 60 year ago , which lead to our exile . " we be see another page in the dramatic history of the indian ocean . surely we should recognise the human right of the people who be so disgracefully treat by britain — and by the united states , but principally by britain . they , at last , will see some degree of justice and the ability to return to their island . i hope , when the minister reply , that he will be able to give i some hope and comfort on the question of access to diego garcia , and also explain why it be necessary to have these incredibly long lease for the us to continue its operation on diego garcia . it seem to i that we should be work towards the indian ocean be an ocean of peace , not an ocean of conflict between rival power .