thank you , madam deputy speaker , for allow i to make my maiden speech . when i drive around my congleton constituency , i thank my lucky star that i have the privilege of both live in and represent somewhere so very beautiful . it be make up of gorgeous rolling countryside , farmland , hedgerow and oak tree . the farmer work all hour to produce the food that we need . it have view of the giant radio telescope at jodrell bank and the natural beauty spot bosley cloud . it be arcadia within commute distance of manchester , crewe and stoke , and i can not tell the house how much i truly love it . the constituency be a grow place , with around 5,000 extra house in the last few year . the population be divide between the cheshire market town of alsager , sandbach and congleton , alongside the large village of holmes chapel , and many beautiful small village , such as rode heath , church lawton and goostrey . there can be few more idyllic spot in the country than sit outside the swettenham arms next to the lovell arboretum , overlook st peter ’s , the archetypal village church . though each town and village have its own unique character and history , the joy and challenge experience by the family who live there be often remarkably similar . they include family whose child have special educational need and disability , who often face extensive challenge get the diagnosis and support that they need . those family need our help , and i will do everything that i can to assist they . i have be pleased to hear the prime minister refer repeatedly in this chamber to those difficulty , and i be confident that he will help we too . family will also benefit from labour ’s review of share parental leave . some 54,000 woman a year lose their job when they be pregnant or on maternity leave . woman actually out - earn man in their 20 . the gender pay gap be in many respect actually a motherhood penalty . man take long period of paternity leave be a way that we could normalise parental leave and potentially reduce those problem . i thank the government for start the consultation on this matter imminently . i pay tribute to campaign group such as pregnant then screwed , rights of women , the dad shift , parent out loud , and the tuc and trade union , which be all do incredible thing in this field . many homeowner in my constituency have be affect by leasehold and fleecehold problem , and will welcome our plan reform on these issue , to which i intend to contribute . they include old people , often the backbone of our community , who provide childcare for grandchild , and often volunteer as well . sometimes , however , they do so in avoidable pain while on nhs waiting list that be too long . those be just a few of the issue that i intend to apply myself to as mp for congleton . let i take the house back to congleton ’s history . congleton be know as beartown , owe to a local story that in the 1600 the town save up to buy a new bible . shortly before the summer fête , the village bear die , so the townsfolk agree that rather than buy their bible they would postpone the purchase and get a new bear with the money instead . congleton be very entrepreneurial across the whole constituency , and many of our small business feature reference to the bear . it be also in our local iconography everywhere . we have the beartown tap and beartown beer . the bear feature pretty much everywhere , as do our fantastic statue of elizabeth wolstenholme - elmy , which be lobby and fundraise for by local feminist . elizabeth , who base herself in congleton from 1874 until her death in 1918 , play a significant role in the woman ’s suffrage movement , found the women ’s social and political union and campaign for woman ’s education and voting right . i hope that i shall think of she often in this place . another of our most famous local figure , although quite different , be harry styles , whose hometown of holmes chapel be now a point of pilgrimage for his fan . i be sure that everyone be sorry to hear today of the death of his former bandmate liam payne — we all extend our condolence to his friend and family . local people have set up a walk trail associate with harry styles . if anyone fancy it , i would strongly recommend follow it , with a stop in any of our local independent business on holmes chapel high street . i would probably include a drink at the george and dragon or the bottle bank , or both . i know that both publican do a lot of voluntary work within our community . people volunteer be common in my constituency , as i know it be in the constituency of many other member . whether they be coach football at vale juniors or any of the other community sport club — there be too many for i to list — planting tree and conserve and maintain our woodland and footpath , as the sandbach woodland and wildlife group do , and as a similar group do in congleton ; help young people through uniformed group such as scout , guide and the various air cadet , some of which i have visit ; run scheme to support man ’s mental health , such as the goostrey community shed , holmes chapel men in sheds , or the new sandbach man walk and talking group ; or even run a community energy power plant in congleton hydro , we have the most amazing set of citizen . i be so grateful for the fantastic contribution that they make to help other , support those who need it , and truly make my constituency the fantastic place that it be . on the topic of contribution , i pay tribute to my predecessor , fiona bruce . congleton have have three mp in its history , all of they woman : ann winterton , fiona bruce and now i . i know that many christians in the constituency and beyond appreciate fiona bruce ’s advocacy on behalf of the religious community , both in the uk and internationally , in her role as envoy for religious freedom . we have many active local church group in our community , and they contribute a great deal of very varied support . church and secular volunteer and organisation , include food bank , food pantry and the old saw mill , be all quietly provide much - need food support within the community . they do this for a far large number of adult and child than the apparent affluence of the area would superficially lead one to expect . as a discrimination lawyer , and someone who go into politic because of the value that i place on equality and inclusion , i will continue to advocate for the right and freedom of all my constituent , and celebrate the diversity within our community . i recently attend the one world festival in alsager , which be first establish by margaret keeling 30 year ago . it celebrate the diversity of nationality live within the alsager community , with food , activity and lot of performance from local schoolchildren . it really be a delight — thank you , margaret . another of the many achievement of the fantastic volunteer in my constituency be that we have regular pride event . congleton hold its first pride about five year ago . i pay tribute to richard walton , ronan clayton and all those who be involve in set it up . it be now ably chair by malcolm pope , who be take it from strength to strength . the excellent curator anna maluk put on a pride exhibition in congleton museum , host photo from those early event and feature art from the local lgbtqia+ community . since then , more pride event have grow in sandbach , alsager and , for the first time this summer , holmes chapel . at one of these event , it be suggest to i that these be really just a family fun day — a village fête , if you will . it be true that the event be fun , fabulous and family - friendly , but beyond the live music and bright clothing remain a serious message . the hard - work volunteer who make these pride event happen do so in the face of repeat homophobic hate crime . similarly , there be still a backdrop of fear attendant in many woman ’s daily life . woman in my constituency have write or speak to i about their experience of sexual violence . i say to the young woman who have talk to i — you know who you be — that i will fight for you , and all young people , in this place every day . that will include ensure that , when embrace new technology and innovation , as we have do this week at the international investment summit , we find way of protect people from new threat — whether that be people look at tractor on their smartphone in this workplace , or artificial intelligence bake in discriminatory decision making . unfortunately , new technology also bring the potential for harassment , discrimination and abuse , and we must not be catch off guard — we must get on the front foot on that . my constituency have a long history of develop new technology . the constituency boundary bisect the site of jodrell bank , the amazing radio telescope . sandbach be the proud home of erf and foden truck . the first foden traction engine be build in sandbach in 1881 , and that be follow by the production of heavy good vehicle for 150 year . the history and heritage of foden still run through the blood of the town , with the annual transport festival and its incredible parade of vintage truck , wagon , classic car and even the odd plane on the common . my constituency be also home to one of the world ’s lead brass band , foden ’s band , which be bear out of the work in 1902 and have twice win , and twice be runner - up , in the national brass band championship of great britain . i will work across this house to stand up for the incredible , entrepreneurial and community - minded people and business of the beautiful place that be the congleton constituency . lastly , i want to say some thank yous . i thank the volunteer who help i to get here and continue to support i , to whom i be very grateful . that include those from the labour party , and i make special mention of the fabian women ’s network mentoring scheme . i thank my adore family , who be in the public gallery today . when i be in westminster , i miss you so much . i hope i do all of you proud . thank you , madam deputy speaker . i start by congratulate my hon . friend the member for buckingham and bletchley ( callum anderson ) on his powerful maiden speech . i be not sure that when he and i attend a birmingham university labour students meet back in 2009 , either of we anticipate that we would be make our maiden speech in the same debate . i want to start by say what an honour it be to stand here as the member of parliament for banbury . as a banbury lad who have never seek to represent anywhere else , i want to repeat what i tell resident on the doorstep during the campaign : this be the job i have always want . to everyone who help make that happen , i can only say thank you . i also want those resident to know that now i have this job , i promise that i will work hard every day to deliver for they , whether they vote for i or not . what make this an even prouder moment for i be that i stand here as the first labour member of parliament for the banbury constituency . until 5 july , the constituency have remain in the hand of one party for 102 year . but change be something that banbury — the large town in oxfordshire — have get use to over recent year . for those who do not know , the banbury constituency be at the furth point north in the south - east region , encompass not just the town of banbury but the town of chipping norton and charlbury , as well as countless village and rolling countryside . banbury be a beautiful part of the world to live in and represent . it be most famous for our nursery rhyme , know across the english - speak world : " ride a cock - horse to banbury cross , to see a fine lady upon a white horse ; with ring on her finger and bell on her toe , she shall have music wherever she go . " banbury ’s history be more than that , though ; indeed , it be more than just the town itself . the constituency reflect our country ’s history , include in its foundation and its landscape . we have the neolithic and bronze age rollright stone ; the settlement on the edge of chipping norton leave to we by the romans ; the norman castle mound at deddington ; and broughton castle which , as well be a stunning late - medieval stately home , be likely to be recognisable to many member as the setting for tv ’s " wolf hall " , and the film " shakespeare in love " and " three men and a little lady " . i be once tell that one of the only request to film there that the owner decline be when the studio want to paint it pink , which be probably wise . in the village of wroxton , where i go to school , we have the former home of lord north . he be also bury in wroxton , give we something that not all constituency have : the rest place of a former prime minister . bliss mill , tooley ’s boatyard and the oxford canal be all remnant of the area ’s growth during the industrial revolution . but the most colourful time in our history be undoubtedly the civil war , when banbury itself be on the side of the roundhead , despite its castle — right in the middle of the town — be on the side of the cavalier . the people of banbury be so unmistakeably puritan that a poem be write about it : " to banbury come i , o profane one ! where i see a puritane - one , hang of his cat on monday , for killing of a mouse on sunday . " more happily , " the puritans " be the nickname for the only supporter - own football club in oxfordshire , banbury united . i mention all this not just because i be really proud of where i call home and its role in our past , but because i want the house to understand what the banbury constituency be all about . although it do not change hand politically between 1922 and 2024 , change do come to banbury in a big way . old industry such as make cloth in chipping norton or aluminium in banbury go , while new one such as logistic with company such as dhl and twe haulage , food processing with fine lady bakeries and go fresh , and high - end mechanical engineering with the haas formula 1 team and prodrive come in instead . other industry , such as brewing , move within the constituency . we can no long get a pint in a hunt edmunds pub , but hooky beer from hook norton be on sale across the united kingdom . the building of the m40 in many way permanently change banbury from a small , semi - industrial market town into something completely different . thousand of new home have go up as our area have become increasingly attractive for commuter to oxford and london , but we still have a council waiting list that have quadruple in a decade and a private sector that can not meet the need . meanwhile , vital infrastructure such as school , road and health service have fail to meet demand , pose fair question from the community for those , like i , who support the government ’s ambitious house building agenda . while they have change , banbury , chipping norton , charlbury and the village of north and west oxfordshire have not lose their sense of community . the community unite across political divide , and none , in defence of our local horton general hospital when it be face with downgrading , successfully fight it off in 2008 and less successfully in 2016 . as the use of food bank grow in the year after 2010 , people across the area come together to help support those in need . for example , the chippy larder in chipping norton have become a much - love community resource . food security in banbury can not be consider without mention our rural farming community and perhaps the most famous farm in the country : clarkson ’s farm . for all the entertainment that the series have provide , for i the most important aspect of it be the light that it shin on the huge challenge face by our farmer , and not just in the banbury constituency but throughout the uk . i hope that the government ’s programme to support they will relieve many of the burden that have make farming so challenge for so long . southill solar farm on the edge of the wychwood forest near charlbury provide community own power to 1,200 home . that be another reason i be so passionate about this government ’s exciting agenda on renewable energy . then there be the volunteer driver service in banbury , take the elderly or those less able to hospital and gp appointment at nominal rate . throughout the pandemic , as in other place , people across banbury work hard to help those less fortunate during that most testing of time . banbury ’s community , lead by some of its many thousand of polish citizen , get together again to gather supply to support the ukrainian civilian flee that conflict , while welcome other into their home and community . on that note , i pay tribute to my predecessor , victoria prentis . although there be much in the campaign that we disagree on , this side of the house be unite with the conservative party in support for ukraine . i pay tribute to victoria ’s decency and her clear compassion for humanity , exemplify as much by she take a ukrainian refugee into her home as by her nine year of service to the community . as for myself , i stand here in support of this government and their mandate for change — something that banbury have a history of embrace . before i finish , i want to thank my family for their support , in particular my wife who , despite have multiple sclerosis , remain the strong , most steady and most stable woman i have ever meet . i stand here as someone banbury bear and breed , ready to build a well britain and a well banbury , and i be determined to do it . i call yuan yang to make her maiden speech . i congratulate my hon . friend the member for bournemouth west ( jessica toale ) on her wonderful maiden speech . i know that her international background and deep expertise in international development will add much richness to our new parliamentary labour party , and i also believe that an international background be essential to enrich the perspective on our side of the house . in my previous life , before come into this place , i spend eight year interview the leader of international business , many of whom have long - stand commitment to investment in the uk , but who repeatedly tell i and my former colleague at the financial times that political instability be put they off make future investment . that be why i very much welcome the remark of our minister on the international investment summit and the importance of the private sector ’s partnership with our government . the 10 - year project that we have for national renewal , along with our 10 - year industrial strategy , show our commitment to long - term economic ambition and planning . i congratulate the organiser of the summit , which bring together more than 300 industry leader and secure more than £ 60 billion of investment . that be 60 % more than be raise last year , and it will create nearly 38,000 job , one of which be bring elton john out of retirement . unfortunately , private investment in the uk since the global financial crisis have be much less " rocket man " , and more " tiny dancer " . over the last decade and a half , britain have experience a much large slowdown in the growth of capital intensity than comparative country such as the us , france and germany , and it be that , alongside our skill growth , which account for our productivity puzzle . i very much welcome the appointment of john van reenen , the wonderful lse economist , to our council of economic advisors . he have do important work on productivity in the uk , and he suggest that our post - financial crisis fall in productivity growth be primarily due to a large fall in capital accumulation . in other word , british worker be be hold back by low level of public and private investment , and that be what our government need to unlock to succeed in our growth mission . we will provide stability , but stability alone be not enough . in the 21st century we must do more to provide industry and business leader with the leadership that they require to navigate our increasingly complex geopolitical world , in which there be fragmentation of supply chain across the world , as well as the green transition . that mean an industrial strategy . i welcome the publication of our government ’s industrial strategy early this month , and particularly the focus on life science as one of the key eight sector for investment . my constituency of earley and woodley in the thames valley be a prime location for foreign direct investment , particularly in life science , and i be proud that the thames valley be the fast grow region in the uk outside london . i congratulate the thames valley chamber of commerce , with which i have already work in my first 100 day , on secure over the last decade more than 1,000 instance of foreign direct investment . we can measure the excitement of business and the private sector for our labour government by the amount of engagement i have already have from business in my constituency and through thames valley chamber of commerce . the biopharmaceutical group lonza , which be swiss in origin , receive a grant of £ 30 million over the summer to expand and relocate to my constituency in the thames valley park , which be one of three business park in the area alongside thames valley science park and green park . i recently meet bayer , originally a german company , which employ hundred of people at its headquarters in my constituency , and contribute to crucial health and life science research in the uk . advancement in life science have fundamentally improve not just the economy and innovation of the uk , but the length and quality of life here and around the world . that be why i welcome the health secretary ’s mission to ensure that the nhs receive the cut - edge treatment be pioneer by company in my constituency and beyond . life science investment , if do correctly , can be a significant driver of growth and productivity — our central mission . i look forward very much to meet the minster for industry next week to discuss how we can give full range to life science company in our constituency , and to the clinical research take place in the royal berkshire hospital , which be at the forefront of much research in medical trial . that hospital will benefit greatly from private and public investment . business do not exist in isolation , and what make some country prosper be the strength of their institution . responsible and highly productive business wish to retain their skilled workforce , who require country with well - function public service provision , infrastructure and accessible housing . those company want political stability and a regulatory framework that work for business , worker , and the consumer . that be why labour ’s pitch to business do not end with the international investment summit , but continue with legislation that the government be pass , such as the employment rights bill . provide the foundation for business to thrive mean fix the foundation of our economy and society , and that be what i be proud to say our labour government will do . diolch yn fawr iawn — i thank you , madam deputy speaker , for the privilege of make my maiden speech in this house . i follow a long list of maiden speech and so i perhaps offer no novelty , but i will take the opportunity of offer familiarity . i come to this debate on the international investment summit have spend the last decade on the frontline of investment , back the inventor of artificial intelligence datum and wide software business across this country and the united states . i therefore know the cause with depth and personal experience , and in particular i know that no working - age person in this country have see a start - up go to the ftse top 10 . in the united states , eight out of 10 have experience that . in the last decade of innovation , britons in this country and in the vale of glamorgan have be deny the opportunity of shape their destiny . decline no more , because i know from speak to investor , include those at the summit , that they believe what i know with this labour government : change be on the way and have begin . my role have be to put the vale of glamorgan front and centre in that wave of change , but i start by also recognise the dual impact that change in this house always have . for every maiden contribution , there be a contribution that have be , and in my case i wish to recognise that of my predecessor , the right hon . alun cairns , conservative mp for the vale of glamorgan for 14 year . in those 14 year alun serve our constituency with sincerity . in fact , he be so sincere that i remember knock on door in cadoxton in barry with the good constituency labour party in the country , only to have my hope dash by a lovely elderly lady who say , " i be go to be vote for alun , the good labour mp this town have ever have . " we all carry an inflated sense of our personal vote in this house , beyond our political allegiance , but in that moment i have to say that i feel and see one . i congratulate alun on his service and wish he the good with the inevitable duality of change that we share , but i also commit to he some continuity in the service that he and his predecessor , the labour mp john smith , offer the constituent of the vale of glamorgan — and continuity also because the cause of barry ’s development , which i know alun initiate , will echo for year to come as my top priority too . i offer continuity because in fact the vale of glamorgan stand out for its continuity . there be continuity as the world centre of education . it be in llantwit major and st illtud ’s church that the uk ’s first college be sit , not only home to st illtud , but also host to st david in the early sixth century . in be in cowbridge in 1795 that one of the first gorsedd of the bards be host by iolo morganwg , since then a font of appreciation for the welsh language , welsh literature and welsh poetry . there be continuity not just in education but in energy , with barry be the world ’s powerhouse and the large coal export port in this country , and indeed the large in the world in 1913 , and with aberthaw not just one of the most advanced power plant of its time , but now the host of my and my constituent ' future dream of a centre of excellence in green energy . alongside energy and education , there be continuity in the world ’s pinnacle of natural beauty — a title i will only share , perhaps , with my hon . friend the member for bangor aberconwy ( claire hughes ) , with our share welsh background . my hon . friend from dorset and devon might have the jurassic coast , but i confess that in the heritage coast of the vale of glamorgan we have every bit of the beauty and the history , and perhaps , for be a well keep secret , a bright future too . finally , there be continuity not just across education , energy and the beauty that we have , but in the heart and humour of the people of the vale of glamorgan . barry be the town that host " gavin and stacey " , and in particular the heart and humour of uncle bryn , my favourite character , who when drive down the m4 blast out james blunt song have be a personal inspiration to i each time i leave this esteemed chamber for the even more esteemed comfort of barrybados . i have see the heart of the community spirit across the vale of glamorgan in big bocs bwyd , which be an initiative across school that start in barry and now go beyond it , ensure that no child go hungry when they be learn . there be the real struggle and the fight that i see each week in the vale domestic abuse services in my constituency , fight the onslaught of violence against woman that we have see not just in the vale but across this country , and there be the powerful heart of the voice choir of barry , llantwit major , and cowbridge , which be able to combine the pure heart of " calon lân " with the deep optimism of " the greatest showman " in one night . i come here with news of the heart and humour of the vale of glamorgan , but also to report its honest challenge . we have the honest challenge of barry , where , when deliver medicine as a volunteer , i learn that the pharmacist be issue multiple of painkiller per patient , compare with the same pharmacist in cardiff . we have the honest challenge of our beautiful farmland , where third and fourth- generation farming family be fight a great but difficult fight against the combine challenge of weather , disease and uncertainty . we have the honest challenge of the veteran of the vale of glamorgan , who be not seek the world , but simply seek a bit of public service for the exceptional national service they give we . money do not buy most thing in life . it do not solve most of our problem , but its absence and the deprivation entrench over the last decade be at the root of many of they . in particular , that have chip away at the dignity of my community . that be why i come here with the twin ambition of great prosperity and a deep bond of dignity in the vale of glamorgan and across the uk . i do so not as a political slogan or out of political theory , but out of a history of personal gratitude , because it be 22 year ago that the vale of glamorgan and south wales , include cardiff , offer a newly arrive set of parent the opportunity of a minimum wage and a night shift to subsidise the sleep of their young boy . in the absence of any holiday , it be barry island that first give those two young boy the opportunity of relief , and perhaps even some delight , over the weekend . it be south wales , where i grow up with my brother in a situation of particular economic stress , where i feel , through the deep privilege of education , that i could go on to advise the prime minister and the civil service , to advise ftse board across the city , to invest in tomorrow ’s inventor and ultimately to stand before the house as wales ’s first member of parliament from an ethnic minority background . when i stand for my twin ambition of prosperity and dignity for the vale , i will do so out of that personal history of gratitude . for as long as i serve as the vale ’s voice here in westminster , i will fight each day for the people in my community .