thank you , madam deputy speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . i thank all hon . member for their fine contribution , include my hon . friend the member for epsom and ewell ( helen maguire ) and the hon . member for sittingbourne and sheppey ( kevin mckenna ) . it be the great honour of my life to serve the people of stratford - on - avon . i be humble to have be elect to represent the place that i call home , where i live and where i have raise my family , who be here today in the public gallery . i be proud to be the first liberal mp for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elect to this role . i extend my heartfelt thank to the people of stratford , alcester , studley , shipston , henley , bidford and the many village and hamlet that make up our beautiful constituency . i thank they for place their trust in i . i promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fight every day for the fair deal that they deserve . i pay tribute to my predecessor , nadhim zahawi , who be mp for stratford - on - avon for the last 14 year . during his political career he cover many important role in the cabinet , but i thank he in particular for his work as vaccine minister during the covid pandemic . i also acknowledge the service of the late john maples , who represent stratford - upon - avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before be elevate to the other place . he be both well like and greatly admire . although i be proud to be the first female mp for stratford - upon - avon , i be not the first to bring italian heritage to the role . that distinction belong to another of my predecessor , john profumo , who beat i to it — although i plan on a much quieter stay in the history book . my constituency be one of the most beautiful area of our country , with luscious woodland such as the heart of england forest , valley lap by river and brook , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the warwickshire countryside can be . my connection to my constituency be one of deep love . i love the stretch from shipston - on - stour and the rolling cotswolds fringe in the south , to the avon valley village and henley - in - arden in the north , where the majestic forest of arden once stand . at the heart of my constituency lie the town of stratford - upon - avon , celebrate worldwide as the birthplace of the great playwright of all : william shakespeare . each year on william ’s birthday , the town remember and celebrate its most famous son , with civic dignitary and local schoolchildren parade through the historic street to lay flower on his tomb in holy trinity church . i look forward to join they next april . what make our constituency special above all be its people , who be resilient and community minded . each town and village be bless with warm - hearted volunteer help in repair cafés , food bank , the community speed watch and flood action group . there be outstanding place of learning , such as our local school and college , the shakespeare institute of the university of birmingham , and the university of warwick ’s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisation such as the royal shakespeare company and the shakespeare birthplace trust ; as well as grassroots art company such as the bear pit theatre and escape arts . event such as the shipston proms celebrate the wealth of musical talent . most of all , we be a constituency of entrepreneur and innovator , business and social enterprise . overlook by beaudesert castle — know locally as " the mount”—the town of henley - in - arden have a timber - frame high street , which include henley ’s most famous attraction , henley ice cream , which be well worth a visit . alcester be a town rich in community spirit that come together each year for event such as the alcester food festival . the town ’s root stretch back to roman time , and its heritage be proudly preserve today in the roman alcester museum . just up the road from alcester be coughton court , home of the throckmorton family , who play a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . as the new mp for the area , i assure the house that i will not continue that local tradition . my constituency also have some of the most beautiful waterway in the country . the rivers avon , alne , arrow and stour , and our fantastic canal network , include the long canal aqueduct in england — the edstone aqueduct — be not only vital to our community ’s natural and industrial heritage , but be central to our environmental responsibility . sadly , not enough have be do to tackle river pollution . i thank resident for join citizen ' science project to regularly test the water and collect much - need datum on the state of our river ' health , so that we can hold the government and water company to account . as a rural constituency , we face many challenge : nhs dentistry desert , long wait time for mental health service , special educational need and disability family battle for education provision , and fuel poverty . many of my vulnerable constituent live in off - grid home that be expensive to heat . the warm homes and energy conservation act 2000 , introduce by sir david amess , be important legislation that seek to eliminate fuel poverty . to far combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that home be safe , warm and cheap to heat . as shakespeare write : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and other have greatness thrust upon ’em . " i stand here today not because i be bear great , or because i seek greatness , but because the people of stratford - upon - avon have entrust i with public service . together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituent and our country . with a new parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fair , green and more inclusive future . the stage be set , and it be now time for we to play our part .