eight month ago , in my maiden speech to parliament , i say that fiona laskaris would succeed in change the law that prevent she from save her autistic son , christopher , from murder . i be here today to honour that commitment . we be on the cusp of change the law . we have get this far thank to the national autistic society ; mps from across the chamber work together to overcome injustice , include the right hon . member for godalming and ash ( sir jeremy hunt ) , the hon . member for rotherham ( sarah champion ) , the right hon . member for leeds south ( hilary benn ) and my right hon . friend the member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) ; steadfast support from my party , the liberal democrats , and support from the prime minister and the government , in a way that represent parliament at its good ; and elisa menendez and romilly weeks from itv , who run the story . above all , we get this far because of the courage and determination of fiona laskaris to save other from the fate that befell her son , christopher . fiona and cara , christopher ’s sister , be in the gallery . christopher be not unlike many autistic child . he be a sensitive , intelligent , loving and compassionate boy , who once ask his mum to stop on the way to school to rescue a lamb that be stick in a fence . i first meet fiona when i be eight . i stay in my bedroom and ignore she , perhaps because i be angry that she be buy my home off my dad ; my mum have die when i be a few month old , and i be a sensitive boy . well , they move in ; christopher grow up in my old bedroom , and he love the house as much as i do , but as a young man live alone in leeds , he struggle . despite fiona plead for help for year , she be never able to attain for he the mental capacity assessment that he need to determine his support requirement . horrifically , he be exploit and murder by a man who have just be release from jail . christopher be 24 . we be work with the government on an amendment to the bill to ensure that the view of family member be consider when determine an adult ’s requirement for a mental capacity assessment . christopher ’s story be not unique . king ’s college london find that in 2022 alone , there be 95 preventable death of people with autism and learn disability in case in which the mental capacity act 2005 have not be correctly follow . it can be hard to grasp the scale of the special educational need and disability crisis in this country , but ten of thousand of send child be out of school , include 1,800 in surrey alone . we be lose autistic child , include my constituent jennifer chalkley , to avoidable suicide , and , at worst , we be abandon autistic people in their 20 to murderer ; we be fail a generation . how we answer their call for justice will serve as a measure of who we be , and i believe the answer be less a matter of money than of leadership . we know from nobel laureate james heckman that early intervention be exponentially more effective and economical in today ’s brutalise system , which have cost the life of christopher , jennifer and too many other . although this amendment be only a small part of the answer , it can save life . if one grieve mother can change the law , perhaps we can change the other thing , too . if we succeed , it will be above all because of the voice of broken but unbeaten parent , like fiona , demand change . although christopher have a difficult life , he have the most precious thing that any man can have : a love and devoted mum . it be up to we to ensure that fiona be a witness that in our country , it be possible for the vulnerable to be hear , for injustice to be overcome , and to find , beyond grief , hope .