thank you , madam deputy speaker . for more than 100 year , since the dawn of universal suffrage , the people of aldershot and farnborough have send conservative mp to speak for we in this place , so it be with great pride and even great humility that i rise to give my maiden speech as the first woman and the first labour member of parliament ever elect by my community . i congratulate everyone on both side of the house who have make their maiden speech before i . let i begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , leo docherty , for the seven year of service he give to my constituency . mr docherty serve our country in the scots guards , as a member of parliament and as a minister of the crown , and we wish he well for the future . leo will be remember as a champion for our armed force , and i have already learn in my first few week as an mp to follow the maxim of the parachute regiment , be " ready for anything " , include the moment when i be tell just a few week ago that a tornado — yes , an actual tornado — be land in my constituency . whatever strong wind be yet to come , i be truly honour to represent my home and the place where i be raise my family . today i repeat the pledge i make to my constituent on the night i be elect : " no matter how you vote , or whether you vote for i or for anyone at all in the general election , i will dedicate myself to serve you , our neighbour and every corner of our community , in aldershot , farnborough , blackwater , hawley and yateley . " my politic have be shape by people and place : my volunteering ; community group ; resident ' association ; my church ; and my career work with business and community , from the co - operative movement to the regeneration of battersea power station , where i help build not just the brick and mortar of a new town centre but a vibrant and diverse community , well represent by battersea power station community choir , which i found . these experience teach i that every voice matter and that listen to one another be the first step to get stuff do . that be the approach i be try to bring as our new member of parliament , and i know from danielle , syfun , katie and many other resident who have already come to i with housing case how much we need to bring great fairness to our private rental sector , so i be look forward to support this bill in the lobby tonight . the history of aldershot and farnborough be build on service and great british innovation . we be the home of the british army and the birthplace of british aviation . our story begin 170 year ago , as our country enter the crimean war . it be in 1854 that queen victoria give her blessing for the british army to establish a permanent training camp in a small village on the hampshire border . the aldershot garrison town be the first complete military settlement build in the british isles since the romans . and farnborough be transform too , grow from a small railway town to become the home of the army ballon factory and the royal aircraft establishment and a hub for military aviation . it be there in 1908 that samuel cody pilot the first aeroplane to take flight in britain . my home continue to deliver cutting - edge technology to this day , with every single boeing commercial aircraft test in the farnborough wind tunnel . above all , aldershot and farnborough have be define by the man and woman who have serve and sacrifice in every major conflict that our country have face . we will always remember they . today we be also home to the large nepalese community in the uk . the gurkhas have serve our country with outstanding bravery over generation , and i look forward to serve they and advocate for they in this place . as well as our military heritage , my community have a rich cultural history . we host the olympic game in 1948 , when event be hold in the aldershot lido , where i now take my daughter swim . we be the setting for several bond film , the place where charlie chaplin make his stage debut , and where the beatles give their first performance in the south of england . we need to shout loudly and proudly about the great thing that have happen and continue to happen in our constituency , and that be something i will always try to do . there be farnborough football club , whose woman ’s team be league champion and cup winner after their first ever season , and aldershot town — the shot — who recently become the first football club to receive the ministry of defence gold award for uphold the armed force covenant . there be great charity such as step by step , the grub hub , yateley industries , our rotary club , the vine centre , and many more i could mention . they be all make a tremendous difference . and the world still come to do business at the farnborough air show every two year . but for everything that be right with our community , i know from countless conversation on the doorstep that many of my neighbour question whether our good day still lie ahead of we . i take that really seriously . i be ambitious for our town — these community that have play such a role in our national endeavour — and i believe that if we can bring people together , we can bring new opportunity to our home , breathe new life into our town centre , and realise our incredible potential . i be ready to play my part in that and hope other will join i . let i end with a promise , because as i begin my term i have find some inspiration in the work of the royal corps of transport , which be base in aldershot for many decade . these man and woman keep our army move across land , air and sea , and their work continue today through the royal logistics corps . they go by the motto " nothing without labour " , and that serve as a reminder to i that everything we discuss in this chamber , and everything we hope to achieve for our constituency , begin and end with hard work — struggle , toil , effort , do our good . for as long as i have the privilege of represent my home in this place , i can promise that hard work be the very least that my constituent will get from i , every single day .