if i may , i will answer that in a moment , because i will now turn back to the report . in lay the report before parliament , the ombudsman bring matter to the house ’s attention , make it clear that parliament have a role in respond to the report . the government intend to engage fully and constructively with parliament . i view this debate as a crucial part of that process . i remind the house about what the ombudsman ’s report say — and indeed do not say . the ombudsman have look not at the decision to equalise the state pension age but rather at how that decision be communicate by the dwp . that be important to understand , as the motion call on the government to " deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their state pension age raise . " importantly , the ombudsman ’s report hint at the department ’s decision over a narrow period between 2005 and 2007 , and their effect on individual notification . the ombudsman have not find that woman have directly lose out financially as a result dwp action . the report state : " we do not find that it " — the dwp ’s communication — " result in they suffer direct financial loss . " the final report do not say that all woman bear in the 1950 will have be adversely impact , as many woman be aware that the state pension age have change . the stage 1 report find that between 1995 and 2004 , the dwp ’s communication of change to the state pension age reflect the standard that the ombudsman would expect it to meet . that report also confirm that accurate information about change to the state pension age be publicly available in leaflet , through the dwp pension education campaign and dwp agency and on its website . however , when consider the department ’s action between august 2005 and december 2007 , the ombudsman come to the view that they result in 1950 - bear woman receive individual notice later than they might have do have different decision be make . i welcome the wide - range contribution from member on behalf of their constituent .