i be delighted to be call to give my maiden speech , and i do so with a sense of trepidation and excitement , which i imagine that many a new mp feel . it have strike i that maiden speech be a little like bus : you wait age , and then 335 of they turn up at once . i beg your indulgence , madam deputy speaker , to listen to one more as we near the end of this journey . as hon . member will know , the excellent house of commons library helpfully provide we with the maiden speech of our last two predecessor , to give we a feel for this place and to acknowledge the work of those who come before we . mr selous serve for a whopping 23 year , and i pay tribute to his work as an assiduous constituency representative who stand up for what he believe in . i discover in his maiden speech that he in turn refer to his predecessor who serve for 31 year , who in turn hark back to the member who come before he — the last labour mp for the area — who be elect back in 1966 . clearly , 1966 be a year that be rather good for team in red , albeit follow by rather too many year of hurt . history show we how rarely change come for these community , yet change be desperately need : on shop- lifting , i have meet worker who have be spat at , threaten with needle and even a gun ; the lack of healthcare facility , include in houghton regis and leighton - linslade ; sewage pollute our waterway ; and transport . i be delighted to be a member of the transport committee , and transport be the subject of the debate , which i congratulate the hon . member for glastonbury and somerton ( sarah dyke ) on securing . my constituency have a long history of transport innovation . it have britain ’s old road , date back to prehistoric time , the icknield way , which run through the constituency . it have the grand union canal , the freight superhighway of its day . leighton buzzard railway once transport sand from quarry and be now a much - love tourism attraction , go full steam ahead . more recently , we have one of the long guide busway in europe , which i hope one day can be extend . that bring i neatly to the topic of bus and encourage more people to switch on to they , which be so vital in this time of climate emergency . i welcome the bsip investment announce recently by the government , and i look forward to hear more from the minister about plan to allow more local area to have a smoother path to franchising . i be keen for the minister to look carefully at transport governance . london and greater manchester , which have franchise already , have also historically have alignment of transport power , resource and capacity all in one centralised place . passenger transport executive and their equivalent can accelerate the delivery of transport plan and play a crucial role in unlock regional economic growth . for 50 year , such structure have benefit from much high level of control and co - ordination of bus . they also benefit from run over a much more logical functional economic geography . outside such area , transport power be hold in many different place , and they require a number of organisation to independently agree reform to enact change . that can mean , for example , that bus stop , which be surely the window to the soul of bus , can be own by an organisation with no say in how the bus service itself be run . in many place in the country , highway and transport power be split . we perhaps need more passenger transport executive , although the urban transport group advise that the last passenger transport executive be establish so long ago — not quite so long ago as when a labour mp last represent dunstable and leighton buzzard — that the mechanic around establish a new one be unclear . in any case , we need governance that be fit for the 21st century , with the right delegate function be grant to a passenger transport executive or equivalent , and the establishment of an executive function to speed up decision making and delivery that make the difference . it need to be base on a geography that reflect travel pattern as well as wide social and economic geography , and which give a large enough base to raise farebox income . on geography , i argue that there need to be possibility to franchise in area large than local transport authority . give that franchising be not entirely a silver bullet , i urge the minister to look at the geography of enhance partnership as well . it be only one bus , but the f70 , which travel from luton to milton keynes via dunstable and leighton buzzard , go through three separate enhance partnership area . finally , i thank grant palmer , arriva and first , which have invite i aboard their bus recently , and dawsongroup for bring a double - decker bus just outside parliament for catch the bus month , which many hon . member from across the house come to support . it be my belief , really , that every month should be catch the bus month . i urge all hon . member to get on board and back our local bus all year round .