thank you , madam deputy speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for glasgow west ( patricia ferguson ) . i congratulate she on a move maiden speech , and i hope to add another place on her bucket list . i be honour to have be elect as the first liberal democrat mp for north east hampshire , a constituency that have have only two previous mps : james arbuthnot — now lord arbuthnot in the other place — who be know for his important role in support jo hamilton and other sub - postmaster and postmistress ; and ranil jayawardena , who likewise want the good for our community and campaign for well infrastructure locally , alongside carry out his ministerial role . boundary change mean that those in lychpit and old basing , who be warmly welcome into north east hampshire , be previously represent by dame maria miller in the basingstoke constituency . she be a strong advocate for woman in parliament and encourage those of all party . i be only the second woman to stand for parliament in north east hampshire , and only about 15 have stand before i in any of the constituency now cover by the current boundary , so it give i great pride to be in the parliament with the high number of woman ever . that achievement would not have be possible without the support of my dad , my late mum , and my husband and child . north east hampshire be a place that people often travel through : by train between london and the west country , or by road on the a30 or the m3 , stop perhaps at fleet service . those who live there , however , enjoy good school , good transport link , low crime and plenty of countryside — all the reason , in fact , why the place often top the list of the good place to live in the uk , and why my family and i choose to move there 10 year ago . i encourage members , the next time a journey take they that way , to stop and visit . if they wish to indulge their interest in political history , they could choose to stay at the four seasons . the hotel be situate in the former home of sir henry st john - mildmay , the fifth baronet of the dogmersfield estate , who be also , coincidentally , a liberal political candidate in 1865 . or they might choose highfield park , where neville chamberlain spend his final month . once a visitor have arrive , there be plenty to experience . history enthusiast should visit odiham castle , basing house and the roman city wall at silchester . those with a military interest will not be disappoint with a constituency that boast raf odiham ; stratfield saye house , the home of the dukes of wellington ; and blackbushe airport , create as an airfield during the second world war . for nature lover , there be so much to choose from : the hazeley heath nature reserve , or a sturdy walk up beacon hill to look out over caesar ’s camp . if they like their nature by the water , there be fleet pond , the basingstoke canal and our two chalk stream , the loddon and the whitewater . after all that , perhaps they might be in need of refreshment . north east hampshire be home to dozen of village pub , cafés and bakery . from the award - win street bakery in old basing to the heron on the lake at fleet pond , look out over the water , there be something for everyone . we even have a local gin distil at upton grey . one of the joy of the area be that each town and village have its own personality , with a high number of independent business that make each one unique . a walk through bramley be entirely different from a stroll along hartley wintney high street or a meander through yately . what unite all of these place be the people . each unique town or village have a strong sense of community , and the people of north east hampshire be unfailingly generous with their time and energy in pursuit of this goal . this community spirit be see most recently when hook infant school and local home and business be victim to a summer flash flood . people rally around , help clean up , raise fund , donate item , hosted friend whose home be damage and offer sympathy . it be in this way that all the community within north east hampshire be connect . but this place that i love to call home be not without its challenge too . connect our town and village take more than good will . our road , particularly our small road , be in a terrible state , public transport leave a lot to be desire , and bus route be sparse at well . it be also surprising that north east hampshire be behind the national average in the adoption of 5 g mobile service , especially when we consider the above - average employment in the technology sector — one that will be vital for the modernisation of both government and our public service . the investment that be need to ensure join - up and efficient public service process be as vital as the investment need in north east hampshire ’s transport . the uk have a proud history of research and innovation , but when nurse be still take patient note with pen and paper , it be clear that action be need . indeed , the national audit office ’s report only last year state that " outdated it system … be a key source of inefficiency " in government . we can not be a country need to catch up , and i hope that the government will draw on the expertise of those in the technology sector to quickly implement the good possible solution , while ensure that individual ' personal information be hold with the high possible security . i also encourage the government , in their review of technology in public service , to consider the role that charity play in support the sector . the tireless work of organisation such as citizens advice and the trussell trust , as well as countless local and regional charity , be the bedrock of our community . such organisation support the public sector to deliver many vital service across health , education , housing , criminal justice and more . in my view , it be essential that those organisation be also invest in , and integrate into , the new system that will be create . i look forward to work with those local organisation , those business and the people in north east hampshire , and i thank they for put their trust in i . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech today , and to follow the hon . member for south devon ( caroline voaden ) and my hon . friend the member for croydon east ( natasha irons ) ; i congratulate they on their move maiden speech . they bring their constituency to life vividly , and i hope i can do the same . i be proud to be the labour and co - operative member of parliament for norwich north , and my first message be one of thank to the people of norwich north for put their faith in i ; however you vote , i be here to serve you . i pay tribute to my predecessor , chloe smith , who serve norwich north for 15 year as a minister and secretary of state , include for science and innovation , and of course as a constituency mp . like i , chloe be a norfolk girl ; we go to nearby secondary school , and i know that one of her passion be open up opportunity for young people , which be something else we share . the last labour member of parliament for norwich north be dr ian gibson , a fierce advocate for our community . it be apt that i be make my speech in this debate , give his passion for science and innovation , and i be pleased to say that a new fellowship be be set up in his name at the quadram institute in norwich : the invest in me research ian gibson fellowship . i also follow in the footstep of dorothy jewson , elect in 1923 to represent norwich , and one of the first three labour woman mps . she be know for action to tackle poverty , and be key to the creation of many of norwich ’s beautiful park . she be also note for refuse to wear a hat in the chamber . i fully agree with she when she say that woman be not in parliament to discuss dress or millinery , but to do something . do something be what i intend to do . my priority be shape by what i have hear from my constituent . that be why i will fight for well health , well home , good education and decent job , and fight to tackle the big crisis we face : the cost of living and the climate crisis . i could not be prouder to come from norfolk . i grow up in a rural norfolk village and have make my home in norwich north . the constituency spread from the northern reach of the city — from the estate of mile cross and heartsease , the pub of nr3 and our amazing green space , such as mousehold heath and waterloo park — and into the broadland area , comprise sprowston , thorpe st andrew , old catton , hellesdon and drayton , each of which have their own unique identity . as many other member have say , our strength come from our active and vibrant community . local organisation , volunteer and parish and town council bring so much to our area — organisation such as the hellesdon dementia support group , which i visit just last week , the sprowston youth engagement project , the many food bank and community hub , and the environmental organisation work to protect nature . the well - know landmark in norwich , from the magnificent cathedral to the castle , may be in the constituency of my hon . friend the member for norwich south ( clive lewis ) , but norwich north have many unique attribute , and many thing that can provide inspiration to our government , and i will touch on just a few today . we be home to norwich airport , from which i fly this summer . that be convenient , but the airport be also a key driver of economic growth . it be pioneer green aviation , with the first all - electric pleasure flight launch last year from norwich airport . we be also home to one of the first large - scale social housing estate in the country , mile cross , which mark its centenary just last year . when it be build , there be a desperate need for home , and that remain the case today , when we need social and affordable housing in particular . on the many industrial estate , we can find example after example of small and medium - sized business harness creativity , innovation and provide much - need job . beyond the boundary of norwich north , there be a huge life science cluster at norwich research park , which be relevant to this debate . to give just one example , scientist from the park be work closely with the uk health security agency and the food standards agency to harness the power of microbiology to protect our food supply . the same technology be use during the pandemic to identify covid variant for the government . i thank the secretary of state for visit norwich just this year with wikipedia founder jimmy wales to meet student and staff from norwich university of the arts , which be provide so much inspiration to many of the innovator of the future . we be also home to the canaries — norwich city — and reportedly the old football chant in the world , " on the ball , city " . my hon . friend the member for ipswich ( jack abbott ) be sadly not in the chamber today , but i want to remind he that while we do not make it to the premier league , in the time it take oasis to break up and reform , ipswich have still not beat the canaries . i will remind he of that when i see he . i will also mention the great woman ’s football we have in norfolk and norwich . in fact , just a few week ago i go to the opening of the lauren hemp community pitch in broadland constituency . for all its advantage , norwich north face many challenge . three in 10 kid live in poverty , thousand be on the housing waiting list , we be a dental desert and too many child , particularly those with special educational need and disability , do not receive the education that they deserve . that must change . as important as what i intend to fight for be how i do it . time and again , people tell i that they be sick of we shout at each other , and of adversarial politic . norfolk be now a rainbow county ; anyone who see the election result will know that we have practically every single party represent . i promise to work with everyone and anyone who want to get the good for our area . i also note norwich ’ long history as a place of refuge . it be officially a city of sanctuary and a tolerant , welcome place , and i know that will continue . after the event of this summer , that be more important than ever . i be proud to stand here as a labour and co - operative woman mp . my path into politic be inspire by many woman , start with my mother , who be still persevere in the gallery up there , and i thank she for that , as well as for the inspiration she provide to i as a local councillor ; she show i the difference that politic can make . i want to thank my family , my dad , my twin sister , my friend and my partner for all their support . i be privileged to have work for the former member of parliament for camberwell and peckham , harriet harman , who teach i so much about politic — about stick to one ’s principle , take on the most difficult of challenge and always , always say thank you . i join this house after year of work in international development , have work in some of the poor country of the world , and also year of serve community as a councillor . in everything i have do , from the local to the global , i have focus on fight inequality and injustice , open up opportunity , bring people together to find solution and work through difference . that be the approach that i will continue to take : to stand up for opportunity , to stand against inequality in norwich north , nationally and internationally , and always to focus on what unite we . in conclusion , i want to finish as i begin , with a message for the people of norwich north : your home be my home , and i pledge to give it my all — to stand up for you , for our fine city and for our great county .