these order be technical in nature and relate to the capacity of uk export finance — which be the operate name of the export credits guarantee department , the uk ’s export credit agency — to support current and prospective exporter . as hon . and right hon . member will know , uk export finance have a mandate to support uk exporter with finance and insurance , help they to compete internationally . uk export finance , or ukef for short , be establish more than 100 year ago and be the world ’s old export credit agency . its support have prove crucial to british exporter throughout its existence . ukef help exporter to win international contract , to fulfil export order , to create job and to get pay . last year it provide £ 8.8 billion in finance to support uk exporter , and support up to 41,000 job around the uk as a result . some 88 % of the business it support last year be small and medium - sized enterprise . ukef provide its finance at no net cost to the taxpayer ; in fact , it generate a return for the exchequer , with £ 705 million return to the treasury over the last three year . the export and investment guarantees act 1991 , as amend in 2015 , confer power on the secretary of state to provide finance that be conducive to export , and to provide insurance in connection with overseas investment . those power be exercise and perform through ukef . subject to some limited exception , section 6(1 ) of the act impose a limit on the aggregate amount of financial commitment that can be make under those power — in other word , the total size of ukef ’s financial portfolio . at present , the limit stand at £ 67.7 billion , express in special drawing right . special drawing right be an accounting unit for international transaction and be create by the international monetary fund ; their value be base on a grouping of five major currency , include pound sterling , the us dollar and the euro . the sum equate to approximately £ 70 billion at today ’s exchange rate . why be we seek an increase ? well , the current limit have be in place since 2015 , and uk export finance ’s portfolio size be now draw close to it . be ukef to reach its limit , it would have to pause its vital financing activity , which , in turn , would cut off its support to prospective exporter . i should note that , in practice , the size of ukef ’s portfolio be subject to a limit set by the treasury . this limit , call the maximum commitment limit , must be low than the statutory limit set out in legislation . i be therefore propose these statutory instrument to increase the commitment limit in section 6(1 ) , and to avoid the future risk of have to turn away application for ukef support . section 6 of the act enable the secretary of state , by order , to far increase the limit by up to £ 5 billion . the power to make such an order may be exercise on up to three occasion and have not be use before . i be therefore seek approval of these three order together , which would allow we to increase ukef ’s statutory commitment limit by £ 5 billion per order , for a total of £ 15 billion . inflation since the limit be last amend and the increase transaction size that the department be support mean that the department be now approach that legal limit . lay these si together be about future - proof ukef and give it sufficient legal capacity to provide certainty for its customer . again , it be a decision for treasury ministers to then confirm the actual commitment limit under which the department operate . after they have come into force , the three instrument take together will increase the commitment limit to 82.7 billion special drawing right , which convert to around £ 84 billion pound at today ’s exchange rate . uk export finance be deliver an ambitious five - year business plan that align with this government ’s mission , support growth and prosperity for uk exporter and their community across the country , and do so at no net cost to the taxpayer , but its ability to do so will be at risk without the additional legal headroom that these instrument provide . these change will therefore allow uk export finance to continue meet its mandate in support export and drive growth — something that i be sure those in all part of the house will join i in welcome . i commend these order to the house .