that be an important concern . as my hon . friend know , we be determined to open up opportunity for people who have be out of work , often for a long time , on health and disability ground , and to give they the chance to get into work through much well employment support . however , we recognise that there will be people who will never be able to work . under the proposal for claim for the new universal credit health element , from next april , a high payment will protect those with the most severe lifelong condition that have no prospect of improvement , and who will never be able to work . eligibility for that will be through the work capability assessment condition criterion . i refer the house to my declaration in the register of members ' financial interests about the help that i receive from the refugee , asylum and migration policy project . i be also the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . i welcome the government ’s action in the bill to repeal part of the previous government ’s repeat gimmick and nonsense legislation in the last parliament . i will speak to new clause 1 , 2 and 37 , all of which i have sponsor . new clause 1 be table by my right hon . friend — apology , i should have say my hon . friend the member for nottingham east ( nadia whittome ) ; she be not right honourable , but she should be . the new clause would require the home office to publish quarterly statistic and information on death in the asylum system and small boat channel crossing . under the last government , a horrifying number of refugee and people seek asylum die try to cross the channel and in home office accommodation . in 2024 , that number reach a record high . despite daily and weekly report on the number of people stop or deport , we still do not have regular , clear and transparent reporting on those who have lose their life in the system . that be incredibly important , not just morally but in order to address the evidence gap , so that we get policy right . new clause 2 would require report on the right to work . i hear what the minister say about this be a discussion about time , but mental health and working right be not separate issue . the majority of asylum seeker in the uk be unable to work and use their skill to support themselves and their family or even to save enough to rent a home . instead , they be trap , isolated , inactive and dependent on state support . there be countless compelling reason why asylum seeker should be allow to work like the rest of the population . give the huge amount of support that idea have from the public and business , we should at least have the opportunity to scrutinise why the ban remain and the impact that it be have . if we want integration , why not let people work in their community and build english language skill ? finally , new clause 37 , table by my hon . friend the member for clapham and brixton hill ( bell ribeiro - addy ) , seek to ensure that child bear in the uk who have grow up here and know no other home be not price out of citizenship simply because of their parent ' immigration status at the time of their birth . such young people be part of our community , school and the fabric of our future . they should not be deny their right or go on to face barrier in education , housing , healthcare and across society . they be not " stranger " ; they be our friend and neighbour . some have stoke racist division against migrant — a drum that the far right have continually bang since — and the whole house must oppose that rhetoric . amid rise anti - refugee sentiment , include last year ’s shock riot , it could not be more urgent or valuable to enable people to feel secure and contribute to their community . i be aghast at some of the amendment table by opposition party , particularly new clause 41 . i wonder how many ruin live those member will consider too many . it be shameful to see the victimisation of people who have come here to find safety .