i start by declare an interest : my wife be the joint chief executive of the law commission , whose work i intend to cite in my remark . it be a pleasure to close this second reading debate for the opposition , and i thank all right hon . and hon . member who have participate in it . i echo what so many other have say and add my own tribute to all the individual and organisation who have campaign for so long for reform in this area . as a number of contributor to the debate have point out , we have wait a long time for this bill . it be just under six year ago that the then secretary of state , the right hon . member for bromsgrove ( sajid javid ) , announce that the government intend to introduce a series of measure to end unfair and abusive practice within the leasehold system , include — i quote here from a government press release in december 2017 — " legislate to prevent the sale of new build leasehold house " . that 2017 announcement be develop three year later , during the tenure of the right hon . member for newark ( robert jenrick ) as secretary of state . in a write ministerial statement date 11 january 2021 , he announce " seminal two - part legislation to implement leasehold and commonhold reform in this parliament " . the first part of that two - part legislative agenda duly follow , in the form of the leasehold reform ( ground rent ) act 2022 . although we — and in particular the shadow minister for homelessness and building safety , my hon . friend the member for weaver vale ( mike amesbury ) — press minister to use that act to implement further reform , we nonetheless support the government in pass it . in the 17 month since the act come into force , successive ministers have make all manner of extravagant promise about what the second part of the " seminal two - part legislation " would entail . indeed , the current secretary of state , in an interview with the sunday times in january this year , even go so far as to declare , without qualification , that he intend to abolish the leasehold system in its entirety . leaseholder across the country , whose daily life be often make miserable by the unjust and discriminatory practice that our archaic leasehold system facilitate , take tory ministers at their word . they expect the second part of the promise two - part legislative agenda to live up to the weighty promise make by the government . they have be badly let down . have wait so long and have their expectation raise so high , they be understandably disappointed at the limited bill that we be consider today . and it be a limited bill , and no amount of bravado from the secretary of state can alter that fact . they be also perplexed , as we be , that legislation that the government claim would end leasehold on newly build house in england and wales do not actually contain any provision to end such leasehold . when the minister respond to the debate , he will no doubt attempt to brush that criticism aside , as he do in oral question last week , on the ground that it be entirely normal for key provision of a bill to be add in committee . sadly , as my right hon . friend the member for ashton - under - lyne ( angela rayner ) mention in open the debate , it be common practice for this government , and this secretary of state in particular , to significantly expand the size and scope of bills by incorporate swathe of government amendment in committee and on report in a way that limit the ability of hon . member to ensure that full scrutiny take place . however , the minister be fool no one in attempt to suggest that the omission from the legislation of key provision be always the government ’s intent . i remind the house , as my hon . friend the member for city of chester ( samantha dixon ) do , that the right hon . member for bromsgrove commit the government to legislate to prevent the sale of new build leasehold house nearly six year ago . the government have no excuse whatsoever for fail to include in the bill the provision necessary to enact that commitment in order for the house to consider they properly today . that they fail to do so no doubt owe more to hurried drafting , and to the wrangling between the department and no . 10 that have take place over recent month in respect of this bill , than to any consider design . however , for all the confusion that surround it , the legislation before we have answer one important question : how ambitious do the government wish to be when it come to leasehold reform ? because this unambitious piece of legislation make it clear that proponent of caution and restraint have win out over those who want to lay claim to a legacy of bold reform in this area . that criticism can not simply be brush aside as carp on the part of the opposition . the government ’s poverty of ambition have real implication for leaseholder be routinely gouge by freeholder under the present system . take flat , which be the overwhelming majority of new leasehold property be create and the source of most of the leasehold - relate complaint that i receive from constituent . the government ’s state solution for they , as make clear by baroness penn in the other place just last week , be reinvigorate commonhold , yet the minister of state make it clear on monday that the government do not intend to incorporate into this bill any provision whatsoever relate to commonhold , despite the clear commitment they make in 2021 . instead , it remain part of their " long - term approach " . in other word , the government ’s offer to swathe of leaseholder across the country be jam tomorrow . the hon . member for redditch ( rachel maclean ) , know affectionately as no . 15 on these benches , give the game away . she say that all the work have already be do on commonhold , so it be not a matter of complexity ; it be a political choice on the government ’s part not to introduce commonhold provision in this legislation . what be so gall about the position that minister have adopt be that there be clearly widespread support across the house for the more ambitious leasehold reform that could have be incorporate into the bill , and this debate have demonstrate it . however , in the die day of this government , we be where we be . while we deeply regret the bill ’s lack of ambition , we have no intention of vote against second reading this evening . we support the intent of the provision in the legislation before we and the principle of the bill as a whole . the measure it contain will give homeowner in england and wales some great right , power and protection over their home . that be not to say that we do not have concern about the efficacy of some of they ; we do , and we will seek to strengthen the bill in a number of way in committee . for example , we believe that clause 12 and 13 , which be intend to protect leaseholder from cover the legal and valuation cost associate with lease extension , require tighten if we be to prevent , in practice , freeholder recover litigation and non - litigation cost . to take another example , we believe that clause 23 , which seek to replace the exist cost regime for right to manage claim , be flawed and need overhaul if it be to protect , in practice , rtm company from cost claim by landlord . we also believe that this limited bill can be improve in way that will give future leaseholder more control over their future . for example , we think there be an iron - strong case for add to the bill provision that would abolish forfeiture for lease entirely and replace it with a more equitable mean for freeholder to recover cost in a dispute that do not involve a windfall . i be pleased by the signal that the secretary of state give on that front in open the debate . to take another example , we think there be merit in add to the bill provision that would ensure that lease on new flat include a requirement to establish and operate a resident ' management company responsible for all service charge matter and associate work , with each leaseholder give a share . we will seek to convince the government of the merit of those and other measure when we go into committee in the new year , and we will engage constructively with the government if they decide to introduce other bold measure into the bill at that stage — for example , if ministers be minded to implement the law commission ’s proposal on the right to manage , cover both flat and house . however , we recognise that there be only so much that we can do with the legislation before we . give the paucity of the bill ’s ambition and the fact that it do not contain so many of the commitment that successive secretaries of state have make , not least in relation to the promise widespread introduction of the commonhold tenure , it be clear that it will now fall to a labour government to fundamentally and comprehensively reform the leasehold system , include the reinvigoration of commonhold to such an extent that it will become the default and ultimately render leasehold obsolete . we be pleased that the bill will progress today . it will provide some limited relief to leaseholder . we will seek to improve it with a view to extract from the government any extra measure that far empower leaseholder and disturb the historical iniquity on which the present system rest . leaseholder across the country who remain at the mercy of arcane and discriminatory practice , to their detriment and to the benefit of freeholder , rightly expect nothing less . but leaseholder across the country expect so much more from the government . we be clear that , in due course , labour will have to finish the job and enact all the law commission ’s recommendation on enfranchisement , right to manage and commonhold in full . we be determined to do so .