it be a delight to welcome you to your new position , madam deputy speaker , which i be sure you will fill with great aplomb , as you have do other position that i have see you in over the past few year in this house . i congratulate the hon . member for lowestoft ( jess asato ) on her maiden speech . it be very interesting to hear about her background in the charity sector . her tribute to former member who be inspiration to she and who have pass away be very moving . i know in what high regard tessa jowell be hold , particularly by those on the labour benches . it be also very nice to hear her tribute to peter aldous . he be a calm and quiet man in some way , but he be also a very kind man who really do stand up for his constituent on many of the important issue that she mention . he will be miss by those on the conservative benches . one of the first thing that i do when i be a new member be try to speak to constituency neighbour from other party . those conversation can be incredibly helpful and revealing , and can ensure that you work together on local issue that should really transcend party line . i speak just yesterday with the hon . member for north durham ( luke akehurst ) , who have take an area of my former constituency . i hope the hon . lady do that , and take advantage of the all - party parliamentary group . one of my good baptism be with the hon . member for neath and swansea east ( carolyn harris ) , who be superb on the appg for gambling - relate harm . we work together cross - party with mps from northern ireland , the liberal democrats and the snp , so i urge the hon . member for lowestoft to delve into the appgs . she give a fantastic maiden speech . thank you very much for call i to speak , madam deputy speaker . i want to touch on a couple of point that have be raise already , and then touch on a few local issue for my constituent , as well as make slight mention of a couple of national issue . the previous government ’s record be clear . we start with 7 % of our electricity come from renewable source and end with 50 % . that be a good move for the long - term interest of the country . however , as the committee on climate change say , and as i mention in an intervention , there will still be a need for oil and gas in the long term in our country . there be a manufacture base for deliver that , which often work symbiotically with our manufacture base for new offshore wind . i really hope that the government think about and recognise that . when it come to our energy security , i do not want our country at the mercy of foreign power . i urge they to really think about the impact that not press ahead with new oil and gas in the north sea be have on constituency , particularly in the energy heart of our country , around aberdeenshire in scotland . we will require it , so i think that be a mistake . i sort of understand politically why they might have go for that , but i really urge they to think again in the national interest . since 2010 , there have be over £ 300 billion of investment in our energy sector from the private sector . whatever we do , it will be private sector - lead . the relatively small investment figure that the government have be talk about have be reflect on . i just urge they to ensure that whatever happen be private sector - lead , and deliver the really good long - term job and growth for the country that we have be talk about and have secure over the last few year . i want to pick up on a few thing that the government have say . my right hon . friend the member for east surrey ( claire coutinho ) mention the £ 300 a year , but the minister do not cover that . could he provide clarity on that issue ? it be something that constituent up and down the country will think about . the minister talk about community - own energy company similar to great british energy . there have be experience of that ; there be robin hood energy in nottingham , which end up cost taxpayer a huge amount of money in the long term . i be interested to know whether the government be invest in the bit that the private sector will not invest in . how can they guarantee the return that the minister be talk about , and how can they guarantee that the policy will not cost taxpayer more in the future ? as a former member of the public accounts committee , i do not want to see , when i look into this in a few year ' time , that taxpayer be leave on the hook when the private sector would not step in . on the overall cost of the net zero plan , in the run - up to the general election , the labour party drop its commitment to spend £ 28 billion a year on move towards the 2030 target . i really could do with clarity from the government on the figure that they be look at , give that in the month precede the general election , shadow ministers talk about it potentially cost hundred of billion of pound to get to that target . as i mention in an intervention on the liberal democrat front bencher , the hon . member for bath ( wera hobhouse ) , on energy infrastructure , the impact would be on community such as billericay , bearsted , and laindon in my constituency , where there would be 160 - foot pylon right down the centre of an area of unspoilt countryside . i really would ask the government to reflect on that , particularly as germany be move to an underground - first approach . if the germans can do it , i do not see why we can not . it be in the conservative manifesto .