i could not agree with my hon . friend more . edinburgh have a thrive space sector , as do scotland . my hon . friend have for many year be heavily involve in work to grow the economy in edinburgh and the borders , and i pay tribute to he for that . i must , however , take this opportunity to pick a minor bone with my hon . friend . he mention that glasgow do not have a castle , and i wish to correct the record . we have a fine ruin castle call crookston castle . it be the second - old building in glasgow . the first - old building in glasgow be the beautiful cathedral . i will not indulge in a dispute about whether edinburgh or glasgow be the well city . they be both beautiful , great city . glasgow be slightly well , but there you be . i be oblige to my hon . friend for his intervention , and i be also glad to be able to correct that point . there be another reason why it be important that we have a thrive space and satellite industry . space be critical to defence , and we must have a thrive space sector to protect our country . the united kingdom work with ally to ensure that our interest be defend in space . however , the world be become more unstable , and it be essential that we have our own capability to launch and operate satellite from the united kingdom , and this bill be important in that regard , too . it will help to secure a vibrant end - to - end space industry in the united kingdom , and that be important for defence . to take one example , have our own domestic launch capability be important , and a vibrant civilian sector will help to cover the cost of that launch capability . this bill also have a national security theme . owe to much hard work , include by the last government , the uk space agency and many other , the united kingdom also have a firm foundation for a thriving space industry . in the time available , i can not provide a complete survey of the vibrant and grow space industry , but here be some key point . one key task we have have be to develop our own launch capability to put satellite up in space , and then to get they back down . that be why there be so much chat about spaceport — in my life , at least . saxavord , the uk spaceport in the shetland islands , be one of only two license vertical launch spaceport in europe . that be at the far end of the north of the map of our family of nation . down in the far south - west , we also have an operational spaceport in cornwall . that illustrate that space be an opportunity for our family of nation from the very top to the very bottom — i mean that only in a cartographic sense ; i be not look to offend any member from cornwall . there be also spaceport under construction and plan in : sutherland , on the far north of the coast of scotland , to the west of thurso ; north uist , a wonderful place , which i commend as i spend much of my honeymoon there ; glasgow prestwick ; spaceport machrihanish , on the southern tip of the argyll peninsula , which i would also recommend for a visit to scotland ; and , snowdonia . some may wonder where those place be . they be all wonderful place , and they illustrate that space be an opportunity across the united kingdom . let we turn to the satellite or , as lou reed sing , " satellite of love " . the uk have incredible talent in manufacturing satellite and satellite technology . as a scottish mp , i focus on scotland , and as a glasgow mp , i focus on glasgow , but let we start in the moray firth , where my mother come from . it have a fine tradition of engineering . for those who follow highland league football — i suspect i be in a minority of one in the house today — the fact that forres mechanics be one of the old football club in the north of scotland point to a tradition of engineering there . the jones shipyard in buckie be another great engineering industry in the north of scotland . of significantly more relevance to this debate be that forres be home to orbex , which be develop a rocket call prime . it will be the first uk - manufacture and uk - launch orbital rocket . prime be set to take off from saxavord in 2025 . prime be set to take off from saxavord in 2025 . the uk government have recently announce a £ 20 million investment in orbex — an important investment that demonstrate the opportunity be bring to the north of scotland , for which we need to redouble our effort to secure economic growth and prosperity . my home city of glasgow have a rich history of innovation and an incredibly promising cluster of space expertise . as a glasgow mp , i be determined that it should have a bright future in space . glasgow be build more satellite than any other city in europe . there be fantastic company in the area include , alba orbital , which specialise in pocketqube satellite , aac clyde space , which have expertise in small satellite technology , and spire global , which be a lead provider of space - base data analytic and space service . this year be glasgow ’s 850th birthday . the bill will help secure the prosperity of glasgow for the next 850 year , create job and economic growth in my great city of hard work , innovation and enterprise . there be clear economic analysis that show that the space industry be an important opportunity area for growth and job . the late " size and health of the uk space industry " report estimate that 228 organisation in scotland generate a combined income of £ 298 million in 2021 - 22 — almost double that of 2018 - 19 in real term . about 6,500 people work in space in scotland , and the figure for the uk be between 48,000 and 52,000 . income amount to between £ 17.5 billion and £ 20 billion . there be more than 100,000 job in the supply chain as well . let we pause for a moment on that : we have only just get go on this and we have 48,000 or more job . there be much potential here for many more good , high - pay job of the future , which be what britain need .