i be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech with my parent and husband in the gallery today . i congratulate the hon . member for eastleigh ( liz jarvis ) , who give an impassioned speech show how deeply she care for her community , its heritage and in particular the history of care for refugee . she speak so lovingly of her late parent . it be the honour of my life to be elect as the first ever mp for stratford and bow . i be bear in east london , and i have live in stratford and in bow . i study at one of our brilliant local university , queen mary . to go from local student to local mp in 20 year have be quite the homecoming . not get our declaration result until nearly 6 am really do bring back memory of stumble home from uni . i pay tribute to the force of nature lyn brown , who serve her home west ham as the member of parliament for 19 year , and for a total of 36 year of selfless service to community in newham . a true east london girl , her guidance and support have be invaluable . i have no doubt that her contribution to the east end and public life will continue . i also inherit bow from my hon . friend the member for bethnal green and stepney ( rushanara ali ) . she be another trail - blazer , as the first bangladeshi - origin woman elect to parliament . she have inspire a generation with the promise of what be possible . although stratford and bow be a new parliamentary constituency , its history be old and rich . the woman ’s hall at old ford road in bow be home to sylvia pankhurst and norah smyth and the headquarters of the east london federation of suffragettes from 1914 until 1924 . it be the beat heart of the east end suffrage movement , and the home of the matchgirl ' strike and the large union of woman and girl in the country . every corner be fill with the history of the struggle for woman ’s right and for our voice to be hear ; a history that i will work every day to honour . as a proud grand- daughter of a trade unionist and a member of the gmb union , i go forward in their memory and will continue to fight for work people . part of my constituency have be represent by illustrious political figure include charles key , keir hardie , lansbury and clement attlee , who lead the labour government that create our beloved nhs — so no pressure on this new member . our stunning victoria park with its breathtaking canal open to the public in 1845 and become the people ’s park : a centre for political meeting and rally with speaker such as william morris and annie besant . it be not just political history that we be bless with in stratford and bow . i be sure that many hon . member in the chamber love nothing more than go home after a long day sit in the chamber and put on their favourite grime playlist . they can thank bow for play an integral part in the origin of grime music , with roman road and its once - beloved record shop produce artist and crew such as roll deep and skepta to name just two . over in newham , we have our top boy kano . i can see that i have completely baffle some hon . members—[laughter . ] for those whose taste be a bit more retro , we be also home to abba voyage . my constituency be a place where people can come and spend their money , money , money in some of our brilliant local and international business . of course — it can not be miss — sit at the heart of my constituency be the london stadium : a place of joy and wonder from the 2012 olympics and some of our most wonderful sporting achievement . as this generation of team gb paralympian compete in paris , i send my wish to they . the ability to bring people together that sport possesse be like nothing else , so it be a privilege and honour to be the member of parliament for the great club in world football — sorry , keir — west ham . as a hammer since 5 july — [ laughter]—i be proud to be forever blow bubble . i know that there be several hammers fan on the government benches and throughout the parliamentary estate — probably more of we than member on the opposition benches . stratford and bow be a wonderful , vibrant and diverse constituency , and our current heritage live up to that history . forest gate be the home of independent cafe and shop and forest gayte pride , overlook the nature and beauty of wanstead flats . there be the bustling shop of green street serve community throughout east london , alongside mosque , temple , synagogue , gurdwara and church . it be a place that be truly representative of the rich tapestry of culture and people that make up our great capital city , london . people from all over the world have come to stratford and bow to make the uk their home . my constituency be a prime example of britain at its good , with pearly king and queen , and white , european , indian , bengali , pakistani , chinese , african , asian , middle eastern , caribbean community and more living side by side and work together to make a well society for everyone . wherever someone be from , they be welcome in stratford and bow . i be proud , too , to have origin as an east london girl bear in homerton hospital , but i be bear here but by fate . i be the daughter of tamil refugee and the child of a community that know what it be like to endure prejudice and persecution . my parent , proud and patriotic british citizen , come to britain over 40 year ago , but they do not simply come here ; they flee for their life , force to leave behind everything and everyone they know and love , tear from a good and prosperous life in their prime to start from scratch in an unfamiliar country , work multiple job day and night to give i the chance that be take from they . britain welcome my parent with open arm so that they could rebuild their life and flourish , and it be the east end that they first choose to call their home . this be the london that i know and love , and it be the story of britain and british value at its good : outward look and compassionate ; a country where people can work hard and triumph . mum and dad , thank you for everything : your endurance and your will to succeed—[hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] you be part of the success story of britain , and that be a story that can be find in every corner of stratford and bow and in every part of britain , with the hope and aspiration for a well tomorrow that all parent have for their child and the dream of a safe and secure life . it be that hope and determination to fight for a well future that this labour government will work hard every day to deliver . whether the people of stratford and bow be bear here , come here in search of a well life or just move to the good bit of london — whatever their start in life — i will ensure that their voice be hear and value . i pledge to work day in , day out to tackle the root cause of poverty , to fight for more police on our street so that woman and girl feel safe to walk home at night , parent do not have to worry about knife crime and young man be not have to look over their shoulder when they walk home after dark , and to fight for an nhs that be here for we in our time of need , where patient can be see in ward , not corridor . deliver my maiden speech during the gb energy debate be apt . climate change remain one of the great challenge of our time , and we must redouble our effort . before i come to this place , i work internationally on climate action with city around the world , the united nations and civil society to help stop our world go past the point of no return and ensure that generation who come after we have a world that have not be destroy because of our failure to act or our fear of be bold . i feel deeply the responsibility that i have to repay the faith that the people of stratford and bow have place in i and the duty that i have to be their voice here in westminster . i will work every day for that and for the value and pledge that i be elect on . thank you .