thank you , madam deputy speaker , for allow i the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for rayleigh and wickford ( mr francois ) , have serve with his brother on my local council 20 year ago . i wish to add to his tribute to sir david amess and jo cox . i would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , sir david evennett , who represent our local area for 33 year , first in the former erith and crayford constituency and then in bexleyheath and crayford . he take a keen interest in education , serve twice as a parliamentary private secretary in the education department . he be elect with the other sir david in 1983 and they be close friend , and it be apt that this debate be name after sir david amess . sir david evennett be the only conservative member of parliament to lose their seat in 1997 and then regain it at the second attempt in 2005 , which say a great deal about his tenacity , and i wish he and marilyn a happy and healthy retirement . i note that when sir david evennett make his maiden speech in 1983 , he follow and compliment the then member for sedgefield , who of course go on to be a great prime minister for 10 year , so i say to the right hon . member for rayleigh and wickford , please feel no pressure in the year ahead . at this election , my constituency of bexleyheath and crayford gain part of the northumberland heath and west heath ward that be previously represent by my hon . friend the member for erith and thamesmead ( ms oppong - asare ) . give the new boundary , it be a privilege to follow former member who have represent part of my constituency , include jennie adamson , norman dodds , jim wellbeloved , sir ted heath , john austin , nigel beard and teresa pearce . it be an honour to have be elect to this house and i be indebted to those constituent who have send i here , and i shall work tirelessly for they as well as for those who do not vote for i . i have live in the london borough of bexley all of my life , attend local school and serve as a councillor for 20 year . my constituent include former school friend , former work colleague , my parent , who be here today , and my grandmother . my constituency be locate at the south - east tip of london , with my constituent look both west into the capital and east across the kent boundary . my family root be like those of many of my constituent : family from south london who move a bit far east , with my maternal root in southwark and my paternal root in plumstead . we in the constituency be proud of two amazing heritage asset : the grade 1 list hall place , build in 1537 ; and the red house , design by philip webb and william morris in 1859 . we be also proud of our contribution to the hit of my childhood , have be the birthplace of boy george and kate bush . we have an industrial past , with the thames at the north of the constituency , but today most job be in manufacturing , retail and hospitality . however , that past help change history and ensure that britain be the country it be today . the vickers work be locate in crayford for 101 year , from 1884 , and during the world war they manufacture the vickers machine gun , aircraft , naval gun lay equipment , and the casing for the barnes wallis bounce bomb of dambusters fame . famously , it be where the british aviator john alcock and arthur brown manufacture the first vickers vimy bomber , with the first 12 manufacture in crayford , while it be the thirteenth , manufacture elsewhere , which in 1919 make the first non - stop transatlantic flight . that history of our constituency continue today with my constituent across barnehurst , bexleyheath , crayford , northumberland heath , slade green , and the small part of abbey wood , belvedere , erith and well that i represent , work hard and deliver for our country . every day i speak to local resident who work in the public sector , and i know how grateful their neighbour be for the work they do and on which we all rely . my constituent rely on train service provide by thameslink and southeastern , which have a depot in slade green where they maintain roll stock and train staff . it be those railway worker who keep my constituent on the move . those commuter work in the financial and professional job that london rely on , but also , importantly , in shop , restaurant and hotel , keep london ’s economy move . and if we take a quick glance around any road in my constituency , we see a variety of white van and black taxi , demonstrate that my constituent be the worker that london rely on to get they from a to b , and the builder , plumber , brickie and lift engineer who will help we grow our economy . but there be one set of worker on which our community really do rely : our volunteer and carer . today , my day start as many other ' will have do : i lift my child from her bed ; i change her nappy , dress she , feed she and tidy her hair ; and then i ensure that she be in her wheelchair and ready for her transport to collect she for school . our child be twin but will lead very different path in life . one talk of a future in work and the journey she will make ; the other , after many year of work from professional , can now manage to talk , but her language be limit to about a dozen word . the eld of our twin have cerebral palsy and a range of complex disability . like other carer , the great concern that my wife and i have be what will happen to she when we be go . many of we know what it be like to have to work and educate our child at home for month during the covid pandemic . in our case , this be stretch by the fact that one of our child require full - time care , our family network and carer be not allow into our home , and my wife be undergo chemotherapy at the time — she be now thankfully recover , due to the fantastic work of our incredible nhs . i can assure members that in my time in this house i will be the great of champion for carer and the disabled , because i really do know the challenge that family in our position face on a daily basis : have to fight the local authority because either it have not transfer the money to pay the carer , or it be not pay at a rate that meet minimum wage requirement ; the constant battle to ensure that our child have a wheelchair that work ; the argument over which part of the public sector will fund the person require to cut our child ’s food at lunchtime because the education , health and care plan be not clear on the matter . i could take the easy path and sit at home rather than be here take difficult decision to fix the inheritance bequeath to this government , but i believe that this house really do need people like i , who know how badly reform be need in the special educational need system and for the right of carer . my constituent , like i , rely on volunteer and charity across the constituency . i be not go to name they , because as i be bind to miss one out , but those charity know that i have the great admiration for they , have work alongside they for many year . they make such an important contribution across bexleyheath and crayford , and i look forward to continue to work with they , our faith group , business and my incredible constituent to deliver the change that our community and our country so desperately need . thank you , madam deputy speaker . i want to start by congratulate hon . friend and other hon . member on some fantastic maiden speech today , but also on the many i have hear since the election in july . they have make i proud to be british . however , notwithstanding those incredible speech and hear about the amazing and beautiful place across the uk , i would still argue that southampton , the place where i be bear and breed , where i have always live and which i have the honour to represent as the member of parliament for southampton test , be the good city on earth . listen , i know it be a bold claim and many will have hear i make it before , but southampton be where the world meet britain . we have help shape the world and we continue to do so , from the pilgrim who set sail from southampton on the mayflower over 400 year ago in search of a new life in america , to be the home of the spitfire , which help to defeat fascism in europe during world war two . it be the university of southampton that invent the internet as we know it today . and be those achievement not enough , southampton also give the world the fishfing sandwich — you ’re welcome . we be a city rich with culture , from our medieval wall that protect our nation in time of conflict to our award - win park , most notably southampton common , which be the green lung of our city , and our renowned art gallery and our theatre , the mayflower . southampton be where jane austen be school and live , and it inspire some of her masterpiece . even today , southampton continue to produce great talent , from the singer craig david to " masterchef " winner shelina permalloo . southampton be also a world - lead maritime city that be integral to the uk economy . the port of southampton handle over £ 71 billion - worth of trade every year , while also serve as the busy cruise port in europe . we be a city of political first . many will know that our country ’s first prime minister of colour be from southampton . i be the first female sikh council leader in the uk . and the former mp for southampton test , my good friend dr alan whitehead , be the first , and i believe the only politician , to have a song dedicate to they by none other than led zeppelin — clearly , they have a " whole lotta love " for alan . now , pay tribute to alan whitehead as my predecessor in this chamber be an honour . he have be one of those unique politician who be universally like , value , and respect on both side of the house . his knowledge on climate change and green energy be unparalleled . he be essentially the taylor swift of the energy sector . [ laughter . ] i ’ m pleased you get it . he leave behind a legacy , not only of shape government policy on energy right now but of benefit future generation , for which we all owe he a huge debt of gratitude . as i approach my 40th birthday in the come days—[hon . member : " surely not ! " ] i know ! it be incredible to think that alan have serve our city for as long as i have be alive , first as leader of the council and then as a member of parliament . he have do so with unwavere dedication , integrity and kindness , mean that he will be sorely miss by many . i be acutely aware that i have very big shoe to fill . alan , and the former member of parliament for southampton itchen , john denham , have both be instrumental in help i to reach this place today . indeed , john , on a visit to my school fair , award i first prize , when i be only eight year old , for my fancy dress costume . i do not know what it be about i dress up as a clown that make john think that i might one day be destine for a career in politic . the truth be that i owe so much to my incredible city and the remarkable people of southampton who give i the opportunity to be where i be today . southampton have make i who i be . as someone who grow up in one of southampton ’s most deprived community , i see at first hand the importance of community and service to other . southampton have a unique ability to come together when it be need most . i have be inspire time and time again by the many example set by our faith organisation , local business and incredible local charity , from love southampton , a faith - base initiative , to business such as the saints pub on the millbrook estate , and charity like yellow door , no limits and saints foundation . all work tirelessly to make southampton a well place , and remind we that when we lift our poor and most vulnerable in society , that lift everyone . our city ’s diversity have make i realise that we be the great place we be because of it — historic , but modern , dynamic , creative , and so much more . i may stand here as our constituency ’s first female mp and mp of colour , but i know that there be many more before i who have pave the way . i feel that responsibility here as well , and feel their weight on my shoulder . as a graduate of southampton ’s two world - class university — the university of southampton , and then solent university — i know that they put our city on the map , and that both be institution that inspire , innovate and push boundary . they have help i , and our city , to be more forward - think and outward - look . as a saints fan , i must confess that support our team be a bit of an emotional rollercoaster , which have teach i , above anything else , enormous resilience . we be thankfully back in the premier league , but whether we be win or lose , together as one city we march on . i be incredibly proud of southampton and everything it represent , but like any major city , we know that we face challenge . one in every three child live below the poverty line , and life expectancy can drop by 10 year simply by be the wrong side of a bridge . public service be on their knee , and many family i represent be struggle . that be why i want to be part of the renewal that this labour government be promise , and want to rebuild the service on which my community rely — from a decent home become a basic human right to people feel safe in our street and neighbourhood again ; from have access to healthcare when it be need to protect our environment and river . another key priority of mine be to ensure that we create opportunity for all , and include the exclude . we know that child from poor area or ethnic minority background , or those with disability , be not less talented ; they be simply give few opportunity . britain ’s talent be spread evenly across our community and our country . if we be to realise our potential , we must ensure that those opportunity be spread more evenly too . these challenge will not be easy to resolve , but the people of southampton , like so many across britain , be rightfully proud and ambitious for themselves , their family and their country . that be why we need a government who be equally ambitious , and commit to unlock the potential and opportunity of place like southampton . i know that , as a city , we stand ready to seize this moment to thrive and grow — and the drive , passion , compassion , togetherness and determination of the people of southampton will see it through . let i end by say directly to they : i will be forever grateful to you for make this daughter of a market stall trader , who grow up in our inner city on free school meal , your member of parliament . you be the very good of i , and i be a product of every opportunity that you have give i . i shall never take that trust for grant , and i will spend every day , in here and beyond , champion our great city , fight for it , and help we to reach our enormous potential . i congratulate all hon . member who have deliver their maiden speech . they have all speak about their constituency with wit , passion and enthusiasm , and i have no doubt that they will be strong representative for their constituent . it be a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech during the sir david amess general debate . sir david be a stalwart member of this house and be barbarically murder in the line of parliamentary duty . as i stand here in this most historic of chambers , i look over to sir david ’s memorial plaque behind the government benches and , as i start life as a member of parliament , i hope i can be a strong voice and a man of action for my constituent , as sir david be for his . i start with a heartfelt thank you to the people of exmouth and exeter east , for they be the reason i be here . they have put their trust in i to represent they as the first member of parliament for our new constituency . it be a responsibility that will always weigh heavily on my shoulder . i also say thank you to my family and campaign team , who have be bastion of love and support through the long journey to this place . for the record , i want it to be know that get marry during the early stage of a general election campaign make for an interesting start . thank you to my wife for be a constant voice of reason and my rock throughout . although exmouth and exeter east be a new constituency , it be create by amalgamate area from three previous constituency , of which east devon be by far the large contributor . refer to all my predecessor , as be custom in a maiden speech , may , therefore , mark i to the speaker ’s office as someone who do not abide by time limit . i say this because all three of my predecessor have make significant contribution to local and national life . simon jupp , the former member for east devon , work hard for his constituent and campaign relentlessly as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the great south - west . he help to secure investment into the region and always champion our part of the world . i consider simon to be a friend , and his contribution to this house will be miss , as will his encyclopaedic knowledge of local devon cider . exmouth and exeter east also incorporate one ward each from the exeter and central devon constituency . the new hon . member for exeter ( steve race ) no doubt give the right hon . sir ben bradshaw the respect he deserve in his maiden speech . however , i would like to pay my own tribute to sir ben , and i know that his judgment and leadership will be miss by the labour party . lastly , i have be bless to inherit the beautiful exe valley from my right hon . friend the member for central devon ( mel stride ) , who continue to serve and lead in this house . his loss be my gain , but i will ensure that i diligently represent the good people of the exe valley as he have for the last 14 year . for those who have not have the good fortune to visit exmouth and exeter east , please allow i to indulge in a cook ’s tour of my new constituency , and to give member a flavour of the geography , the history , the settlement , the people and the organisation that make my part of the world so irresistibly enchanting . start at the mouth of the river exe , go out to the heathland of woodbury common and finish in the countryside above the city of exeter , the constituency of exmouth and exeter east have it all : beautiful beach ; serene , open and arable landscape ; the eastern part of a thriving city ; vibrant town ; and picturesque village . many part of my new constituency have be inhabit for several millennia , with area such as topsham be settle by the celt , turn into a port by the romans and expand by the saxons . possibly our most famous resident have be sir walter raleigh who be an elizabethan statesman , soldier , writer and explorer . although he achieve much in his life , i will do my good not to meet the same fate , which be to be try for treason before meet his end outside this chamber in old palace yard . we have some fantastic organisation across exmouth and exeter east , such as the royal national lifeboat institution , which work tirelessly to keep local and tourist safe in the water around the constituency . we have global expert work to advance the frontier of knowledge on weather and climate at the met office ’s headquarters . we have clinton devon estates , which be ably responsible for the stewardship of much of the land in the southern area of the constituency . as an example , the clinton devon estates team , work with the environment agency , recently demonstrate to the world how to proactively regenerate land by complete the low otter restoration project . as be to be expect , we be fortunate to have some of the good farming produce anywhere in the country . for those look to visit , i highly recommend stop in for a pasty at darts farm or greendale farm shop . however , the organisation that have the most special place in my heart be commando training centre royal marines . for decade , the training camp in lympstone and the area of woodbury common have be the proving ground for all wannabe royal marines , and for those from across our armed force who aspire to become commando . have endure royal marine commando train over 16 year ago , i be happy to announce that i have learn , once again , to enjoy spend time on woodbury common , without fear of be cold , wet , hungry and cover in gorse thistle . the royal marines be a proud organisation , in its 360th year in service to our country . sadly it have become increasingly rare for a former royal marine to enter this house as a member . however , royal marines must share the same tendency that bus be afflict by : none turn up for eon , then four turn up at the same time . although the other three former royal marines , the hon . and gallant members for plymouth moor view ( fred thomas ) , for halesowen ( alex ballinger ) and for birmingham selly oak ( al carns ) opt to join the party now in government , i know that the kinship that bind royal marines together through share adversity will benefit this house , and , i hope , provide combative but constructive debate . while exmouth and exeter east have much to be celebrate , it also have its fair share of issue . from an aged and degraded sewerage network to antisocial behaviour , there be many issue that my constituent have place trust in i to help improve . for too long we have build new house in the area without deliver appropriate and corresponding infrastructure . i fear the new government ’s top - down housing target will far compound that issue , and i will do all i can to ensure that the right mix of house be build , in the right place , with the right infrastructure and public consultation . i be also deeply concerned that large part of exmouth and exeter east will be tarmacke over within one generation . of course we need new home for the next generation , so that they can live near their friend , family and work , but we must have a temper approach and ensure that we do not overdevelop and destroy our countryside , and the culture of our historic town and village . there be also area that i will work hard to improve across exmouth and exeter east , such as social care provision , post-16 education scheme , job opportunity , transport link , and support for farmer and those in rural affair . it be worth voice that this new parliament bring the wind of political change to devon and the wide south - west of england . as a new mp , i be open and willing to work with fellow south - west mp , regardless of political affinity , to ensure we drive as much investment and opportunity as possible to our part of the world , in a join - up way . in an increasingly connected world , i believe our mps must have a firm understanding of the national and international issue that affect we , and most importantly how these issue affect our constituency . for much of my adult life , i have fight hard in several organisation to keep our united kingdom safe and prosperous , both in the physical and the digital environment . we be on the precipice of a new industrial revolution . frontier technology , such as artificial intelligence , supercomputing and nanobiotechnology , will radically change our world and the relationship we have with it . it be imperative that the new government understand these issue and work across the public and private sector to ensure that our united kingdom remain a technological global leader . there be no get away from the fact that the international system be become more volatile . it be deeply sad that conversation about international conflict be no long hypothetical . war have break out across multiple global region , and we must act without delay to increase defence spending to meet the threat that be clearly present . anthropogenic climate change have long cease to be purely an academic debate — it be visible and happen now . we must continue to work closely with international partner to reduce our overall global carbon emission . it be beyond a faux pas to speak in communist tone from the conservative benches — i could risk make the same treasonous mistake as sir walter raleigh . however , there be modern resonance in lenin ’s purport quote : " there be decade where nothing happen ; and there be week where decade happen . " in isolation , any of the point i have raise have the ability to cause mass societal and environmental change . when decade happen in week become the new normal , we must keep pace to ensure the united kingdom remain strong , ally and ahead of the pack in an ever - change world . my final message be to the people of exmouth and exeter east who send i to this house . i promise that i will always fight for we , and that i will represent we to the good of my ability , while i have the privilege of serve as their member of parliament . i congratulate the hon . member for exmouth and exeter east ( david reed ) on his maiden speech . it be a joy to hear a little about his constituency . i will begin by thank my predecessor as member of parliament for mid derbyshire , pauline latham , for all she do to serve its resident . pauline represent the constituency from its creation in 2010 until she stand down at the end of the last parliament . prior to 2010 , the community that make up the constituency be part of other constituency , serve by many illustrious former member , perhaps most notably george brown . pauline champion many important cause in this place , include international development . she also lead the charge to increase the marriage age from 16 to 18 , a lasting change that reduce the risk of young people be subject to coercion or abuse . i send pauline my every good wish for her next chapter , and i look forward to work with she on area of share concern . a small but important part of my constituency be serve by the former member for derbyshire dales , sarah dines . i thank she for her service and i be sure my hon . friend the member for derbyshire dales ( john whitby ) will give a more extensive tribute to she in his maiden speech . one of the most exciting priority of this new mission - lead government be their commitment to harness the power of nature to deliver clean power and , in turn , to deliver energy security , new job and cheap bill . there be a history , stretch back over 250 year , of use nature to power the economy in the derwent valley , which run through mid derbyshire . the world ’s first water - power mill be build on its river bank to spin cotton , make the valley the birthplace of the industrial revolution . among its early pioneer be jedediah strutt , a hosi and cotton spinner from belper . through an entrepreneurial approach , strutt progress from humble beginning to become one of the lead industrialist of his age . along with sir richard arkwright and samuel need , he be a father of the modern factory system , which be adopt around the world . although the derwent valley no long hum to the clatter of looms or the rhythm of the people who operate they , it continue to harness nature to sustainably power home and business through the hydroelectric scheme it support today . however , despite be the east midland ' only unesco world heritage site , home to some of the country ’s most beautiful landscape and extensive biodiversity , some of the valley ’s iconic industrial building face an uncertain future , due to their poor state of repair and lack of occupation . we must save these building . they have incredible potential , include to support local economy , increase job opportunity and alleviate the housing crisis . they be also vital to tell derbyshire ’s story , and the story of our country . celebrate and preserve the past be not frivolous or sentimental nostalgia . it be vital to our sense of place and our perception of who we be today , what we share with other and what make we distinctive . know where we have come from also shape where we venture next ; that be as true of building , countryside and historic site as it be of our politic . it be also true of our art and culture . the creative industry be among britain ’s most important export . they be a huge part of our economy and boost our standing around the world . they be a vital catalyst to express and explore idea and bring community together . they have be common to every culture since primordial time . music , the visual art , dance and drama provide an opportunity to walk in somebody else ’s shoe . they build a more inquire society and help we to understand who we be and what it might be like to have somebody else ’s experience . they be also a vital educational tool , but in far too many case they be not a staple in school or something that people have an adequate opportunity to engage with throughout their life . i look forward to make the case , throughout my time in this place , that this be an underused opportunity for our country . as we face the huge challenge ahead and return the country to economic stability and renewal , opportunity must be our watchword : opportunity to help people get ahead in life through good job , for example in the small and medium - sized business that proliferate in my constituency or at place like smartparc in spondon , where food production be be reimagine ; opportunity to benefit from exceptional education and training , such as be be offer at rolls - royce and at the university of derby in my constituency ; opportunity to enjoy good health and community safety through renew public service ; and opportunity to live in a greener world through the new government ’s commitment to the environment and to tackle climate change . be give the opportunity to serve the people of mid derbyshire be the privilege of my life , and i thank everyone who support i along the way . i thank the voter of mid derbyshire : whether they vote for i or not , i be here to serve they . i also thank my many friend and family , who have be a great source of strength on the journey . i be determined to do the people of mid derbyshire proud , and to support the new government to deliver the change that my constituent tell i they need and that they rightly deserve . thank you , madam deputy speaker . may i thank hon . member who have make their first speech today for set the bar so high ? i hope i can live up to the standard that they have set . i be send to this place by the constituent of lichfield , a constituency that include not only the city itself , but the town of burntwood and around 40 village and hamlet in the great county of staffordshire . i be proud to serve the area that have be my home since before i know to call anywhere home and where i hope it will be for many , many more year to come . my predecessor in this house be sir michael fabricant . he be knight in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 year represent first the constituency of mid staffordshire and then lichfield in this house . thirty - two year in total sir michael serve , and i think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . should i be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 year ' time , madame deputy speaker , i can only hope to have such a head of hair . it be , however , to longevity that i wish to turn now . although i have receive advice from some colleague not to mention the domesday book , i can neatly sidestep that as the record history of my constituency date back some 1,000 year before william the conqueror to the roman invasion and the establishment of letocetum , a roman fort and later settlement near the crossroad of watling street and rykneld street in my constituency . the crossing of those two road remain an important place throughout the roman and saxon period , and , in the 7th century , chad of mercia establish a cathedral and diocese in lichfield , which still exist today . in just over a week ’s time , i will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — i think — the 58th dean of lichfield cathedral . the right reverend jan macfarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the church in the local community and beyond . the 7th century be also noteworthy for the burying of the staffordshire hoard , which be uncover in hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroad of watling street and rykneld street . the large collection of anglo - saxon gold ever find , the hoard be already have , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isle , before there be an england , a scotland , a wales or a northern ireland . let i move on from the 7th century . over the come year , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surround area maintain its rural and agrarian aspect for many century to come . in this time , the area do produce innumerable great life , and , while they be far too numerous to mention all of they here , i should note gregory king , the world ’s first economic statistician ; elias ashmole , whose collection found the ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the uk ; david garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician erasmus darwin , a found member of the lunar society who have a rather famous grandson ; the poet , anna seward ; thomas gisborne of yoxall lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of william wilberforce ; the painter john louis petit , who be have a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; frederick oakeley , who translate the word to " o come all ye faithful " in lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , samuel johnson , a man of letter and the author of the first dictionary of the english language . johnson ’s heir , samuel barber , be a freed slave who would go on to run a school in burntwood , decade before tom jenkins would begin teach in teviothead in scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the uk . before i move on from some famous people from around the area , i should mention a local success story in sophie capewell . lichfield ’s golden girl bring home not just a gold medal from paris this year , but a world record as part of team gbs fantastic effort . in do so , she end my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , nether stowe in lichfield , and although i have hop to hold that title a little long than 32 day i be happy to be disappoint on that point . return to my historical tour of lichfield and its surround area , we reach the early and mid-19th century , and the town of burntwood , a conurbation of mining village , which grow up some four mile from lichfield and have a similarly proud history . its most notable resident be the fundraiser and campaigner stephen sutton , who raise million for the teenage cancer trust despite his diagnosis . we lose he far too soon , at the age of just 19 . he be make an mbe for his fundraising , so it be more than fitting that burntwood town council remember he through a student award name in his honour . not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , burntwood also take its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , st anne ’s church in chasetown become the first in the country to have electric lighting . today , the people of burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining area . that be show by the great example of the spark café and burntwood be a friend , which have do so much to step in to replace service cut during 14 long year of conservative government . if we be discuss burntwood , we can not forget the giant - kill exploit of chasetown fc in the fa cup of 2007 - 08 . at some point , i will forgive the members for cardiff . burntwood be not the only part of my constituency that have a mining history . the village of handsacre also more than play its part in power the industry of the 19th and 20th century . it be also the village where my old man teach his first lesson as a probationary teacher in the 1970 . the suggestion that his geordie accident be in part responsible for his hiring in a school build to teach the child of new arrival from the north - east remain suspect , if unconfirmed . mining be not the only industry that find its way to my part of staffordshire . many of we will recognise the name armitage shanks , but few will know its link to the village of armitage , just a short trip up rugeley road from handsacre . as the new government focus their legislative agenda on growth , i remind colleague that while many of we may have already spend a penny with armitage shanks , they be all welcome to visit and spend many more in the come year . all this industry mean that the canal come to my constituency . the coventry canal and the trent and mersey canal be still navigable today , and the work of the lichfield and hatherton canal restoration trust should be commend , as it aim to restore that link as a green and blue way over the come year . have touch again on transport , i will complete the circle and return to the crossroad that make letocetum . watle street , or the a5 , as it be now know , and rykneld street , the a38 , be major transport artery that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . the a38 in particular have help to establish a logistic centre in the village of fradley on the site of the former raf lichfield . fan of the bbc ’s " bargain hunt " will know fradley well , give the regular appearance of richard winterton and his auctioneer on that show . i hope that i can get as much airtime as they do . slightly far up the a38 be the national memorial arboretum near alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . i advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in november but on any day . i be sure that in the come month the secretary of state for transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . on a dissimilar note , the first travelodge in the uk be open slightly up the road some 39 year ago , near the village of barton - under - needwood , although that village should be much well remember as the home of the holland tug of war team . found in 1970 , the team have represent england at numerous international tournament , and even bring home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championship . it be to this constituency that i will return during the recess . i look forward to speak to my constituent about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plan , and many other issue that be on their lip . i look forward to bring those story back to this place , so that i can continue to advocate on my constituent ' behalf . i be extremely honoured to be give my maiden speech in a debate name after the late , great sir david amess . i be grateful for this opportunity . i thank all member who have give their maiden speech today . i enjoy the lot of they . it have be wonderful to learn about the many famous former resident of lichfield , and i wish the hon . member for lichfield ( dave robertson ) the good of luck in add his name to that pantheon . special mention go to the hon . member for southampton test ( satvir kaur ) for provide the answer to the pub quiz question : what link craig david and fishfinger sandwich ? we all know well now . i be the first non - conservative mp for west dorset in its 139 - year history — something i be extremely proud of . that notwithstanding , i will start by pay tribute to my conservative predecessor . chris loder ’s family have farm west dorset for over 100 year , and he should be deservedly proud to have serve as its mp . we be both successor to sir oliver letwin , an mp who be so well respect by the resident of west dorset that they would stop i at every opportunity to tell i what a fantastic constituency mp he be . i can only hope to leave this house as fondly remember in the area as he be . although each of we have be proud to be the member for west dorset , we be not west dorset ’s proud member . that honour go to the cerne abbas giant , a 55 - metre - high chalk fertility symbol whose presence stand proud over the cerne valley for all to see . west dorset be the good constituency in the country . i know that for a fact because the town of bridport , dorchester , lyme regis and sherborne have , at various time over the past few year , be describe as the good town in britain by no less an authority than the dorset echo , a newspaper that share my unrivalled objectivity when it come to the virtue of west dorset . west dorset be home to the world - famous jurassic coast , a unesco world heritage site , where mary anning help to revolutionise our understanding of prehistoric life . she be long overlook by historian , but her contribution be now recognise with a beautiful statue in her home town of lyme regis . at the other end of chesil beach be the fleet lagoon , the uk ’s large saltwater lagoon , on which sit the abbotsbury swannery , which be home to over 600 swan and be a fantastic day out , especially if you love swan . as well as the swan , one can also see , rather incongruously , a prototype of barnes wallis ’s bounce bomb . quite what the swan of abbotsbury think about their home be use as a replica for the ruhr dam be still unknown . sadly , our beach and river see over 45,000 hour of sewage release into they last year . the river lim , which exit at lyme regis , be declare " ecologically dead " due to the level of pollution in it . it be shameful that i and my family , before we go swim at the nearby beach of west bay , must log on to the surfers against sewage app to check whether it be safe to swim . i commit during the campaign to use my seat in this house to pressure the government to take serious action on the issue of sewage , and i promise to do so . west dorset be hardy country . thomas hardy be renowne the world over for his poetry and novel , such as " far from the madding crowd " and " tess of the d’urberville . " his work famously deal with theme of melancholy , sadness and moral conflict — emotion that i be sure be familiar to member vote in the tory leadership contest . in his lifetime , he be also highly critical of the decline status afford to rural britain . for even more than its beautiful town and coastline , west dorset be a constituency define by its countryside — a landscape manage and maintain by our farmer and food producer , who be the beat heart of our rural economy . we desperately need a national food and farming strategy that will deliver sustainable living for our farmer . far from be cut , the farming budget must be significantly increase if conversation about food security be ever to be anything other than fine word . as an environmentalist , i be delighted that we now have a government who seem to understand the importance of tackle the climate crisis and who recognise the vital part that renewable energy will play in achieve net zero . have spend a large part of my career in renewable energy , i will be urge the government to go far and fast if we be to avoid the bad ravage of the climate emergency , which be already unfold . the liberal democrats will continue to champion the need for action in this house . on the subject of my party , i pay tribute to our party leader , my right hon . friend the member for kingston and surbiton ( ed davey ) . i and many of my colleague owe our seat in no small part to his fantastic , if unorthodox , campaign . i must also pay tribute to another leader of the liberal democrats . my political journey begin in 2015 , with nick clegg ’s resignation speech . he say — i summarise here — that in the face of the politic of identity , nationalism and " we versus they " , it have never be more important to keep the flame of liberalism alive . it be true then and it be true now . i know then that it be not enough to stand on the sideline and watch the country that i love so much be eat by the self - interest of those who seek power only for power ’s sake or for self - enrichment . sadly , over the summer we see that there be those who would seek to use the misery of people who have come here seek refuge to further their own aim . i mention that because it will come as no surprise that the morellos be not originally from this island . the morellos of italy become the morellos of spain — with apology to both country for my pronunciation — before come to britain at the beginning of the 20th century . one of my forebear die fighting in world war one for the country that adopt he , and be bury in a commonwealth war grave cemetery in northern france . my own father serve in the royal navy . even more than morellos , my family be mazierskis . my maternal grandfather come here from poland at the end of the second world war , flee another type of political tyranny . he arrive as a child , speak no english . he become an engineer and set up a build company . his child become nurse , teacher , artist and architect . his grandchild be doctor , civil servant , lecturer and environmentalist , and one of they stand here today as a member of parliament . in my experience , immigrant do not forget the debt they owe the country that offer they a future . we must not let hate win . we must champion hope . that be why it be more important than ever to fly the flag for liberalism , liberal value and a rule - base international order . i would also like to mention my amazing wife . she be far , far cleverer than i and would make a far well politician . without she , i certainly would not be here today , not just because of the love and support she have show i , but because it be her suggestion that i run in the first place — something i find myself remind she with increase frequency . finally , i thank the voter of west dorset for put their faith in i . it be a huge honour to represent they , and i look forward to do everything i can to deliver a well deal for west dorset . thank you , madam deputy speaker , for allow i to make my maiden contribution in this debate . i pay tribute to the member on both side of the house who have make their maiden contribution , include the hon . member for west dorset ( edward morello ) , who give we an illuminate insight into what we could hope to see in his constituency . i also pay tribute to those who know sir david amess for their moving contribution . i be extremely proud to be the first labour member of parliament for altrincham and sale west , in no small part because of the brilliant team of local volunteer who work on the campaign and the support of my wonderful friend and family . i also thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the member for stretford and urmston ( andrew western ) , who be bear in my constituency and be such a valuable friend to i during the campaign . at this early stage in my contribution , i want to pay tribute to my predecessor , lord brady , who represent the people of altrincham and sale west for 27 year . i thank he for his service to his constituent and for his kind word to i follow my election . i think one of my constituent sum it up well . while i be knock on door in hale during the election campaign , a woman — and the whole house will be relieve to know that i will not attempt to impersonate she — say of lord brady , " the thing about graham be that whether you agree or disagree with he , and frankly i usually disagree with he , he be always unfailingly affable . " i hope to one day be describe by my constituent in a similar fashion . of course , as the result of a rather interesting few year for the conservative party , he might well come to be remember as one as the more consequential chair of the 1922 committee . i be sure the new chair , the hon . member for harrow east ( bob blackman ) , be hop for a slightly quieter few year . judge by the friendly and collegial way in which that party ’s leadership contest be shape up , i have every confidence that that will be the case . when i meet new member from all side of this house and tell they i be fortunate enough to represent a constituency as beautiful as altrincham and sale west , in many case i get a nagging sense from they that my mere presence in this house , represent where i do , be symptomatic not just of the level of change at the last general election , but of a labour party that be able to appeal to every part of our country and every section of society . however , the reality be that my constituency be extraordinarily diverse in almost every regard . within easy reach of the city of manchester , it be a place of business , thrive small and medium - sized enterprise and entrepreneurship — include the spectacular market in altrincham — but wythenshawe and trafford general hospital be also major employer . it be an area with ten of church , four synagogue and the altrincham and hale muslim association , and it be where many from hong kong have choose to start a new life away from tyranny and repression . yes , it be a part of the world where many people be do well for themselves and for their family , but it also have an estimate 3,000 child grow up in poverty . what unite the constituency and make it such an extraordinary place be that it have such a strong sense of community , participation , and everyone pitch in to play their part . i have see that at altrincham football club , a brilliant community club with amazing grassroots initiative , and which in 2019 become the first team in england to wear a shirt inspire by the rainbow flag to show their support in the fight against homophobia . i have see it from staff and volunteer at the garrick playhouse , who work tirelessly to put on a comprehensive series of play and production , and i have see it at trafford south foodbank , which work across the constituency to provide for people in need . it be able to do what it do thank to the remarkably generous donation of local people . however , all too often , organisation such as that foodbank be have to go above and beyond in the most challenging of circumstance to stop people fall through the crack , because as a country we have fail to provide people with the security in work that they need ; we have fail to provide the economic stability and certainty that business need in order to invest ; and we have fail to address the long - term challenge our country face . that be why labour be elect : to fix what have become break , and to offer hope and renewal . that be why the people of altrincham and sale west send i here : to cut waiting time across our national health service , include at wythenshawe and trafford general ; to clean up our badly polluted river and stream ; and to make sure people can feel safe on our street by tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . have work on a national campaign against the violence and abuse that shopworker receive , i know how important it be that we clamp down on crime against public - face worker , and i know that this government will act . have change our party so that we could be give the extraordinary opportunity we have to change our country , that be the sort of tangible change to the life of people in altrincham and sale west that we must achieve . i be look forward to work to deliver that change in the year to come and show how , even in difficult time , government can still be a force for good . that be the very least that the people of altrincham and sale west , and of our country , expect and deserve . on that note , second only to bridgend , chatham and aylesford be one of the most beautiful constituency in the country . [ laughter . ] create in 1997 from the previous rochester and chatham , mid kent , and tonbridge and malling seat , we have a rich legacy of excellent and outspoken parliamentarian , include dame peggy fenner , andrew rowe , julian critchley , jonathan shaw and the remarkable dame tracey crouch . what can i say ? dame tracey be well know for her warm personality and diligence . she be engage , and her constituent speak well of she on the doorstep and in the 14 year she represent the area . i be also reliably informed that , unlike i , she have a legendary involvement in the parliamentary football team . i be reliably inform , again , that her tackling skill be well know , and that no one ever try to take the ball from she when she be in in full flight . on a serious note , she have do outstanding work on the football fan - lead review , she lead on anti - gamble legislation when she be in the department for culture , media and sport , and she have leave a deeply inspire legacy for young woman in sport in particular . i salute her record and her fortitude . my constituent embody aspiration and determination . although i be raise in the city of medway , i have be actively involve in chatham since 2001 . it be a dynamic and diverse area , with hard - work , direct and down - to - earth people . the constituency be truly beautiful , with stunning panoramic view from blue bell hill over the weald of kent . on a clear day one can see many other constituency , include tonbridge , sevenoaks , maidstone and malling and canterbury , and many walker and hiker find entertainment along the historic pilgrims ' way . the seat also contain some of the early human settlement history , with the megalithic structure of kit ’s coty hark back to neolithic time . it be identify with numerous artefact of historical significance , although i must say to the hon . member for west dorset ( edward morello ) that there be — perhaps — no chalk figure of historic stature in my constituency . the part of my constituency that will be most familiar to members be chatham , whose historic legacy be know across the world . its significance as a commission dockyard have be recognise globally , and its long - stand naval tradition date back to henry viii and the tudor period . the area retain that naval link until the 1980 , when the dockyard be closed , and it still have that proud naval tradition . i be reliably informed that the resolute desk in the oval office , in the heart of western democracy , come from hms resolute , which be construct and support in chatham , and many of our fine naval tradition have come from that location . chatham and aylesford do , however , face significant challenge . many area , particularly urban chatham , experience poverty , and , accord to figure from the house of commons library , 17 % of child be live in poverty . issue such as crime and antisocial behaviour have be exacerbate by cut in neighbourhood policing and early intervention programme . i be committed to work with all our community to address those challenge . , and it be on that note that i want to pay particular tribute to many of the charity and other organisation that serve my local community . they include the arches project in luton , the dementia awareness group , street angels , royal british legion industries and our poppy appeal volunteer , who go out every year to collect fund for veteran and our military community . i believe that community wealth building should be central to our approach to government . by focus on wealth creation , we can drive and support local business and revitalise our town centre . my hon . friend the member for gillingham and rainham ( naushabah khan ) have do excellent work in that neighbouring seat to revitalise gillingham town centre , and i will seek to replicate it , work closely with council leader across medway , tonbridge and malling and kent county council to advance the agenda . in recent week i have hear many inspiring speech from new member , but what unite we all be a shared ambition to effect positive change for our community and our country . i be honour to serve , and i pledge to work across party line to ensure economic security and improvement in our public service — and i will do so in a friendly , open and approachable way . the government must of course deal with the £ 22 billion in - year deficit , and we must work to secure our economic prosperity to ensure that all our people , especially our young people , have the skill that will give they a future . i be deeply honour to represent the constituent of chatham and aylesford . thank you for call i to make my maiden speech , madam deputy speaker . i congratulate the hon . member for alloa and grangemouth ( brian leishman ) on his contribution . it be interesting to hear about the challenge face industry in his constituency . it be with immense pride and honour that i stand here today to give my maiden speech as the first ever female and first ever liberal democrat member of parliament for epsom and ewell , which also include the town of ashtead and leatherhead . this moment be not just about my election victory , but part of a long journey of progress that start with brave woman like emily wilding davison , a suffragette who give her life for the cause of woman ’s right . in 1911 , she famously hide within the wall of this very building , the palace of westminster , to declare it her residence on the night of the census . just two year later , she make the ultimate sacrifice , lose her life at the epsom derby while campaign for woman ’s suffrage . it be remarkable that today , 101 year after her pass , we now have 263 woman in this parliament , more than ever before . that progress be a testament to her legacy and the relentless effort of organisation such as 50:50 parliament , whose support in get i here i be personally grateful for . i be delighted that there be now progress towards establish a woman ’s caucus in parliament . i want to take this opportunity to congratulate lord grayling , my predecessor , on his move to the other place , and to thank he for his 23 year of dedicated service to epsom and ewell . his service to the community be well recognise , and i look forward to build upon that work , while bring fresh perspective and new energy to our local and national challenge . the community of epsom and ewell pride itself on strong local value , resilience , and on a rich sporting and creative history . it be home to the world - famous epsom derby . we have the university for the creative arts , laine theatre arts and many sporting club , include three run club and two football club . it have several vibrant economic hub , with many successful business , large and small . but it be the people who make my constituency special . whether it be our small business , voluntary group or the diverse family who have make the area their home , epsom and ewell represent the good of what a community can be when it work together . epsom and ewell be a beautiful place , bless with remarkable green space and historical significance . we be fortunate to have three site of special scientific interest : ashtead common , priest hill and stones road pond . we also have beautiful green space , such as horton and nonsuch park , epsom downs and the surrey hill , an area of outstanding natural beauty . one site that hold special meaning for many be langley vale , which be use to train over 8,000 soldier during the first world war and where lord kitchener famously inspect the troop . today , it stand as a centenary wood , a place of reflection with beautiful sculpture honour our military past . as someone who proudly serve in the army , in the royal military police , i be deeply move by our community ’s tie to the armed force . my own military experience include serve in iraq during operation telic iv in 2004 , where i be responsible for retrain and mentor the iraqi police force in maysan province . it be a volatile and dangerous region at that time and it be not an easy tour . we come under fire on a regular basis and it be make hard with the knowledge that , just a year before my arrival , six of my rmp colleague be kill in majar al - kabir . the coroner find that they have be give inadequate radio and ammunition , so it be no surprise that we be give more ammo and weapon when i arrive . i want to ensure that our armed force continue to have the right resource to stay safe in their duty as this government conduct their spending review . i hope the secretary of state for defence will bear in mind the effect that cut can have in the field . lord darzi ’s report about the nhs be publish today , so it be apt that i share a personal experience that underscore my commitment to improve healthcare service in epsom and ewell . in 2007 , my six - week - old son suddenly turn blue in front of i , while a health visitor be visit . i call 999 . it be a terrifying moment , and before i know what be go on , my living room be pack with paramedic and there be equipment everywhere . i be tell to pack a bag and shortly afterwards we arrive at a&e. the crash team be there and my baby boy be surround by 20 consultant try to figure out what be wrong . i stand there look on , helpless . the doctor manage to stabilise my son and move he to the amazing evelina hospital , just over the river from parliament , as they do not have the specialist equipment need . he go into the paediatric intensive care unit . every bit of his skin , even his head , be cover by some sort of patch or monitor to try to establish what be go on . the consultant inform we that he have bronchiolitis and that it would be touch and go that evening . thankfully , my son survive the night and we spend over a week in intensive care , as the amazing doctor work to save his life from bronchiolitis . i see at first hand the critical importance of high - quality emergency care . it be my mission to make sure that the resident of epsom , ewell , ashtead and leatherhead have access to the good possible healthcare . our community be promise one of the 40 new hospital . that commitment must be fulfil . we be part of the epsom and st helier university hospitals nhs trust . st helier hospital be struggle , with crumble facility and overstretched staff . we have few hospital bed per capita than in many other nation . ceiling be fall in and building be condemn . the need for a new hospital be urgent , and i look forward to discuss it with the secretary of state for health and social care in the come week . the house will be pleased to know that my son be now a big , strong 16 - year - old , challenge his parent as every teenager do . epsom and ewell be home to two significant river : the hogsmill , a relatively pristine chalk river whose beauty be immortalise by sir john everett millais in his iconic paint " ophelia " ; and the river mole , which be one of the most polluted in the country . thames water ’s negligent handling of our water resource have lead to more than 8,000 hour of sewage discharge into the river mole in the first six month of this year alone . thames water be cripple by be billion in debt , and water bill keep rise . executive bonus be hand out as the sewage be pour out . this mismanagement of our water be unacceptable . i call for great regulation and accountability and for a sewage tax to protect our river and water infrastructure . epsom and ewell have affluent area , but we also face stark social inequality . there be part of my constituency in which food bank have become a lifeline for struggle family , and our local housing waiting list have grow to more than 1,300 household . food bank be not the norm ; they be a sign that society simply be not work . i be concerned that even more of my constituent will be use they this winter as they struggle without the winter fuel allowance . the stark contrast between wealth and deprivation be a reminder that we must do more to support those who be most in need . i be incredibly grateful for the work of the good company , the leatherhead community hub , local faith organisation and all the volunteer and local charity who work tirelessly to provide for our community ’s most vulnerable . as the member of parliament for epsom and ewell — a constituency that stretch from worcester park and stoneleigh in the north to ashtead and leatherhead , the gateway of the surrey hill , in the south — i want our community to thrive economically , socially and environmentally . my constituency have inspire literary great such as c. s. lewis and jane austen . i believe that it can continue to be a place of innovation and inspiration . i thank my parent for their support throughout the year . i thank my husband and three kid for their support and their leaflete prowess throughout my campaign . most importantly , i thank my constituent for place their trust in i . i be committed to repay their trust with service , dedication and determination to make epsom and ewell a well place for everyone . thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i to address the house for my first speech , and for make time available for so many of we to make our first speech today . i particularly congratulate the hon . member for epsom and ewell ( helen maguire ) : the story about her child in intensive care touch i very deeply , as an intensive care practitioner . i can see that she be go to be a fantastic advocate for our armed force and for the thing they need to serve the country well . in pass , i must mention lord darzi ’s report , which my right hon . friend the health secretary present to the house today — not because of the content of the report , but because in 2015 i be honour to become a darzi fellow . lord darzi set up his fellowship programme to bring clinician like i , a nurse , into clinical leadership , to ensure that the nhs and the health system be lead by clinician . i be not sure that the plan be to get we all into the houses of parliament , but i be the first darzi fellow here and i think there will be quite a few more . i be honour to speak in this debate in memory of sir david amess , whose constituency of southend west can be see from mine of sittingbourne and sheppey — we see the beautiful vista of southend , which be now a city , across the thames . over the past few month , during the campaign and afterwards , there have be several time when i have look over at southend and take a moment to reflect on the manner and the tragedy of sir david ’s death and what it mean for all of we serve here in the house . it be a great blessing of my constituency that , amid our busy , traffic - laden town , we have these beautiful vista down the thames and the medway estuary . we have broad , flat salt marsh meet big sky — place that you can escape to and properly reflect on everything that matter in life . during the election campaign , i ask my constituent what they value most in the constituency , and it be that proximity to nature that keep come up . they mention the wide - open estuary water of the thames and medway — several of my medway colleague be in their place today — the many site of special scientific interest and the nature reserve at elmley . now that member be spend time in london , they might want to pop down for a hot yoga weekend — it ’ a whole thing . however — so many member have say something similar when describe their seat — that be only half the story . the other half be the still proudly industrial town of sittingbourne . its character and location challenge many people ’s preconception of kent . sittingbourne ’s twin on the isle of sheppey , sheerness - on - sea , have busy dock — dock that , hopefully , will become only busy as the opportunity for growth , construction and new green industry be realise by this government . sittingbourne and sheppey be perfectly locate to take advantage of all that development . my job be not only to argue for our place in the rebuilding of britain , but to ensure that my constituent see real social , economic , health and wellbeing benefit from the opportunity . the factor that lead to the foundation of our town be lay century ago fit the way that technological , industrial and transport strategy be all point now . sittingbourne straddle the main road from dover to london and be connect directly by water , road and rail to sheerness dock on sheppey . this be what make the saxon king of kent grab the land and claim it as their terra regis . this be something that the resident of milton regis be very proud to remind i of — that it be a royal town in the middle of sittingbourne . it be those same route that allow the town of queenborough to develop as a major port . tuck behind sheppey be the safe waterway — and major trading route — from london through to the continent and the rest of the world . those route be also what enable sittingbourne to develop a major brick - building industry in the 19th century . it produce more brick and have more people work in it than the pottery in staffordshire . those brick be largely use to build london . many town house in the 19th century , buckingham palace and many of the building on this parliamentary estate will have be build with the clay and brick from sittingbourne . our water and transport give we the opportunity to produce green energy and bring about green way of travel . that will benefit sittingbourne and sheerness in the future . peel ports at sheerness be a major importer of construction material for the south of england . with investment to restore our rail freight link and an ambition to once again use our water route , we can be at the heart of a green revolution . but there be more to a place than land and water . a place be make by people . what will ensure that the people of my constituency get the benefit that they be cry out for as a result of growth and rebuilding be the strength of our local community and the collective action that come from grassroots organisation . as we move more service out of hospital to the community and try to mend the broken sense of cohesion in our society , these community actor will be key . there be great organisation , include seashell nursery in sheerness , which hold true to the course take by sure start centre , with their now prove benefit , although they be sadly under threat of closure , and wiggles child ’s nursery , which have partner with sheppey ’s range rovers football club to create a multi - generational facility that will massively boost the health of the neighbourhood . there be also people come together , on the island and the mainland , to form progressive man ’s mental health peer support group , include men - talk . uk in sheppey and sittingbourne . a team of volunteer resurrect the sittingbourne carnival this year after several year ' gap to ensure that its tradition of more than 130 year do not die , but instead will go from strength to strength . there be swale food bank , and underpin so many of the voluntary organisation in my constituency be swale community and voluntary services , which foster lot of organisation , help they to get start , get organise and help their community . part of the reason for that depth of community co - operation be that my constituency face the challenge of have some of the most deprived part of kent and the south - east . unfortunately , a big driver for that be the very geography that otherwise bring in so many benefit and opportunity . as sheppey be an island , with only one point in the west that connect to the rest of england , there be pocket of isolation , and when the two bridge go down , as sadly they have all too often of late , people can not get off sheppey to go to work or school , or on to sheppey to deliver service in sheppey ’s hospital , school , dock and three prison . all that impact not just sheppey but sittingbourne and the surround village . both my predecessor work to overcome those entrench challenge . i pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , gordon henderson , who many here know well , for his work persuade his party when they be in power to invest in technical skill training on the island and expand sheppey college . my labour predecessor , derek wyatt , secure the funding for a permanent fix bridge to the island , the sheppey crossing , to overcome the problem of the old kingsferry bridge , which be only a few metre away and have to be raise several time a day to let ship through , to link the paper mill and the dock . both of they believe in the enormous potential of the area , but there be a lot more to do . it be a professional habit of intensive care nurse that we be inveterate fiddler and fixer . we like to help people , and we like to keep busy do so . now that i have swap adjust ventilator setting and syringe driver for work in public policy , however , i need to find new way to keep busy . i will keep work with people in sittingbourne and sheppey to bring they together , and will work collaboratively at try to fix thing for the well , but there be one thing in the constituency that i assure you , madam deputy speaker , i will not be fiddle with : the ss richard montgomery , a wrecked world war two cargo ship sink just off sheerness , which be pack with something like 1,400 tonne of high explosive . most expert feel that as long as the ship be not disturb , the seawater will gradually inactivate those explosive , so if they be ever disturb enough to trigger , any firework would be minor . however , there be a minority view that if something trigger all the explosive to go off at once , the result explosion would not just inundate the whole of sittingbourne and sheppey but send a 5 - metre tsunami back up the thames , all the way to central london , swamp the palace of westminster — give we all very wet foot , and most of the mps in the south - east and london an awful lot of extra casework . finally , i thank my constituent again for put their faith in i ; the campaigner and activist who help i to get elect ; my parent and sibling , who have always show how proud they be of i ; and most of all , my husband lee , who i could not have get this far in life without , and who be a true partner to i in everything that we do . thank you , madam deputy speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . i thank all hon . member for their fine contribution , include my hon . friend the member for epsom and ewell ( helen maguire ) and the hon . member for sittingbourne and sheppey ( kevin mckenna ) . it be the great honour of my life to serve the people of stratford - on - avon . i be humble to have be elect to represent the place that i call home , where i live and where i have raise my family , who be here today in the public gallery . i be proud to be the first liberal mp for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elect to this role . i extend my heartfelt thank to the people of stratford , alcester , studley , shipston , henley , bidford and the many village and hamlet that make up our beautiful constituency . i thank they for place their trust in i . i promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fight every day for the fair deal that they deserve . i pay tribute to my predecessor , nadhim zahawi , who be mp for stratford - on - avon for the last 14 year . during his political career he cover many important role in the cabinet , but i thank he in particular for his work as vaccine minister during the covid pandemic . i also acknowledge the service of the late john maples , who represent stratford - upon - avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before be elevate to the other place . he be both well like and greatly admire . although i be proud to be the first female mp for stratford - upon - avon , i be not the first to bring italian heritage to the role . that distinction belong to another of my predecessor , john profumo , who beat i to it — although i plan on a much quieter stay in the history book . my constituency be one of the most beautiful area of our country , with luscious woodland such as the heart of england forest , valley lap by river and brook , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the warwickshire countryside can be . my connection to my constituency be one of deep love . i love the stretch from shipston - on - stour and the rolling cotswolds fringe in the south , to the avon valley village and henley - in - arden in the north , where the majestic forest of arden once stand . at the heart of my constituency lie the town of stratford - upon - avon , celebrate worldwide as the birthplace of the great playwright of all : william shakespeare . each year on william ’s birthday , the town remember and celebrate its most famous son , with civic dignitary and local schoolchildren parade through the historic street to lay flower on his tomb in holy trinity church . i look forward to join they next april . what make our constituency special above all be its people , who be resilient and community minded . each town and village be bless with warm - hearted volunteer help in repair cafés , food bank , the community speed watch and flood action group . there be outstanding place of learning , such as our local school and college , the shakespeare institute of the university of birmingham , and the university of warwick ’s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisation such as the royal shakespeare company and the shakespeare birthplace trust ; as well as grassroots art company such as the bear pit theatre and escape arts . event such as the shipston prom celebrate the wealth of musical talent . most of all , we be a constituency of entrepreneur and innovator , business and social enterprise . overlook by beaudesert castle — know locally as " the mount”—the town of henley - in - arden have a timber - frame high street , which include henley ’s most famous attraction , henley ice cream , which be well worth a visit . alcester be a town rich in community spirit that come together each year for event such as the alcester food festival . the town ’s root stretch back to roman time , and its heritage be proudly preserve today in the roman alcester museum . just up the road from alcester be coughton court , home of the throckmorton family , who play a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . as the new mp for the area , i assure the house that i will not continue that local tradition . my constituency also have some of the most beautiful waterway in the country . the rivers avon , alne , arrow and stour , and our fantastic canal network , include the long canal aqueduct in england — the edstone aqueduct — be not only vital to our community ’s natural and industrial heritage , but be central to our environmental responsibility . sadly , not enough have be do to tackle river pollution . i thank resident for join citizen ' science project to regularly test the water and collect much - need datum on the state of our river ' health , so that we can hold the government and water company to account . as a rural constituency , we face many challenge : nhs dentistry desert , long wait time for mental health service , special educational need and disability family battle for education provision , and fuel poverty . many of my vulnerable constituent live in off - grid home that be expensive to heat . the warm homes and energy conservation act 2000 , introduce by sir david amess , be important legislation that seek to eliminate fuel poverty . to far combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that home be safe , warm and cheap to heat . as shakespeare write : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and other have greatness thrust upon they . " i stand here today not because i be bear great , or because i seek greatness , but because the people of stratford - upon - avon have entrust i with public service . together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituent and our country . with a new parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fair , green and more inclusive future . the stage be set , and it be now time for we to play our part .