it give i enormous pride to be stand before you , madam deputy speaker , and to make my maiden speech as hemel hempstead ’s mp . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the members for cannock chase ( josh newbury ) and for stirling and strathallan ( chris kane ) . i know stirling well through my involvement in the make poverty history campaign ; it be a very beautiful place . i be grateful to make my maiden speech in the presence of the secretary of state , who be generous with his time in my constituency during the election . i be humble enough to accept , however , that the primary reason for his presence be usually the fact that his mother reside in hemel hempstead and be a member of the local party . in this debate about rural affair , i want to start by pay tribute to the beautiful countryside that surround our town , and to the village that be part of the constituency follow the change to the boundary at the last election . from st lawrence ’s church in bovingdon , where i be this morning to mark armistice day , to chipperfield cricket club and the green dragon pub in flaunden , we be bless with many picture postcard scene — and my dog , albert , be particularly fond of chase squirrel on chipperfield common . turn to hemel itself , the old town be so picturesque that one local council official jokingly refer to it as hemelwood , such be its popularity as a film location for local tv and movie . we be once home to the site of a major roman villa on the river gade , which supposedly have the big roman bath outside bath itself . when hemel town council be amalgamate into a new district council , exactly 50 year ago this year , the then labour leader of the council , gordon gaddes , who be still a stalwart in our community even though he be now in his 90 , choose an old latin name for the council — dacorum , which mean " of the dacians " , reference a period in saxon time when danish law apply due to the presence of the vikings . we also have a long - stand connection to henry viii , who in 1539 grant the town its market charter . because of he , the mighty hemel hempstead town fc be nickname the tudors . like many other , my family ’s connection to the area come from the creation of the new town after the second world war . this new town be one of labour ’s fine achievement , provide family with decent housing , good - quality factory job , education and healthcare . from chaulden where my dad grow up to highfield where my mum do , and adeyfield where my nan live now , council housing surround a square with amenity such as shop , a community centre , a place of worship , a gp surgery and school . i therefore welcome our new government ’s commitment to build genuinely affordable housing and new council home , while also ensure that the right infrastructure accompany they . as we seek to build new town around the uk , i would be happy to show ministers the virtue of our ingenious , and often misunderstood , magic roundabout . i pay tribute to my predecessor , sir mike penning . it be not just our community that he serve with loyalty , but this nation : sir mike be a distinguished grenadier guardsman in the british army and subsequently serve as a firefighter in essex . in his maiden speech he say that when he leave this house he want to be know as a good constituency mp . he certainly be , doggedly take up his constituent ' individual case when they need he . i also pay tribute to our two previous labour mps : tony mcwalter , who be kind enough to take i under his wing when i be a member of the uk youth parliament , and lord corbett . sadly , i never have the opportunity to meet robin , but i know from my friendship with his widow , lady val , that he be a wonderful , warm and kind man who serve his constituent with compassion . that lead i to the point that i will prioritise as i serve the people of hemel hempstead . first , i will strive to improve local healthcare , include by push for a new community hospital . in line with this government ’s commitment to neighbourhood - base care , and enjoy the support of the local nhs trust , the local council and my predecessor sir mike , i will push hard for the project to advance in the most ambitious way possible , as well as ensure that access to gps and dentist improve . i will make sure that child in hemel hempstead , particularly those with special educational need and disability , get the good possible education . the send situation , not only in hertfordshire but in dacorum itself , be particularly bad ; the issue come up repeatedly when i be talk to voter as a candidate , and it be at the top of my postbag now as an mp . at one of my most recent surgery one parent , natasha , tell i that her son alfie have be diagnose with autism age five , yet he have be repeatedly refuse an education , health and care plan and have be wait for a specialist appointment for almost two year . sadly , her story be one that member of this house will know all too well . i be glad the issue be an area of priority for our new government , and i will continue to work on it on a cross - party basis as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on send . i will also prioritise combat crime . recent stat show that hemel be the one of the bad town in hertfordshire for antisocial behaviour — indeed , it be the bad major town — while vehicle crime be at 105 % of the national crime rate . i have see that at first hand when i have have the opportunity to go out with local bobby on the beat . i will work hard to make our community safe , whether by get more police officer in our town or by work to reopen the front desk at hemel police station . i know that the cost of living crisis be hurt people locally . food bank use have go up 1,000 % in the past 10 year in my constituency . i applaud the work that local charity such as dens , community action dacorum and hemel hempstead community fridge be do to help . i be do everything i can to stand alongside they , but i also pledge to push for well decision to be make here in westminster to ensure that food bank do not need to exist at all . in conclude his maiden speech , sir mike pay tribute to the person who bring he into politic , the late sir teddy taylor — no relation ; it be a common name — and it be only fitting that i do the same . after take part in the uk youth parliament , i think long and hard about which great cause i want to focus my time and energy on . i get involve with the make poverty history campaign ; i still have the wristband around my wrist . i attend a rally exactly 20 year ago outside the labour conference , where i hear the then chancellor gordon brown speak in thunderous term of our duty to help those less fortunate than ourselves . a few year later , i have the enormous privilege of work for he , with my newly elect hon . friend the member for midlothian ( kirsty mcneill ) . many within these wall and beyond will recognise his — and her — unrelenting dedication and drive to improve the life of other , which inspire i to this day . finally , i add my name to those who have pay tribute to jo cox in their maiden speech . with the labour campaign for international development , and now as a member of the international development committee , i remain committed to take forward her legacy , particularly on the responsibility to protect civilian , which be so urgent everywhere from ukraine to syria to sudan . as gordon say on the eve of the poll back in july , we have a choice in the uk and around the world : to succumb to pessimism or to embrace hopefulness and remember that , in jo ’s word , " we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ official report , 3 june 2015 ; vol . 596 , c. 675 . ] i will do my utmost , as long as i have the honour of represent the people of hemel hempstead , to push for a more hopeful future in our community , our country and our world .