thank you , madam deputy speaker , for call i in this extremely important debate . i congratulate my hon . friend the members for crawley ( peter lamb ) and for cowdenbeath and kirkcaldy ( melanie ward ) on their touching and move speech . i really be proud to be one of the scottish delegate . in the tradition of maiden speech , i begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , deidre brock , who represent the constituency for nine year — the first woman to do so . i wish she and her team well in their future endeavour . i would also like to pay tribute to mark lazarowicz , who represent the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continue to advocate for human right , asylum seeker and the environment . the newly extend boundary once again include muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represent by the hon . member for edinburgh west ( christine jardine ) . this part of the constituency hold a special place in my heart as it neighbour west pilton , where i live and where my stepchildren go to school and attend greater pilton childcare centre during the 1990 . it be a groundbreaking facility provide family with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that i hope we can learn from and replicate . when we live in west pilton , our flat be riddle with damp . we have to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litre of water daily . our child ’s health suffer , and paint over black mould be normal . we be lucky : we be eventually able to move . however , the flat be still there , and i would suggest that the issue remain too . housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofit home . access to safe and secure home be a fundamental right , and although it be a devolved issue in scotland , we must learn lesson and work together across government to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient home for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . i also place on record my sincere thank to malcolm chisholm , who help we at this time . he represent edinburgh north and leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he move to the scottish parliament , before stand down in 2016 . he be why i join the labour party . his reputation and integrity , his achievement and his passion for the people of edinburgh north and leith be rightly still recognise , and indeed he remain an inspiration to i and many other in our community and beyond . madam deputy speaker , i think the record may have to be correct as i have hear many hon . member from across the house make an error by declare that their constituency be the great in the country . they be of course mistaken . as many of those who have already visit will know , edinburgh north and leith can surely claim that accolade . from our amazing shop on princes street , george street and the new st james quarter , as well as our fantastic independent store , we have the good retail across the country . we have world - class restaurant , cafés and bar — from the johnnie walker whisky experience , which i be pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . friend the deputy prime minister , to the lind & lime gin distiller , where my right hon . friend the prime minister be welcome , and the port of leith distillery , the country ’s first vertical distillery . i extend a welcome to all my hon . friend to visit and join i for a dram . edinburgh north and leith be steep in history from calton hill to the new town , another unesco world heritage site , and onwards to stockbridge , the home of golden wonder crisp ; newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and western harbour , reclaim from the sea . we be home to the royal yacht britannia and the royal botanic garden in inverleith . leith link have claim to be the birthplace of golf . and although the stadium be just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , hibs , be leith to the core . i can confirm that , as the song suggest , there be indeed much " sunshine on leith " , although not always on match day . our famous port of leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — have see the coming and going of ship from all over the world , bring with they story , good and people that have shape our identity . the historic landmark remind we of our rich heritage and the importance of preserve it for the future . this be evidence through our proud industrial and political history , be where rose ’s lime juice be invent to prevent sailor from get scurvy , and where salvesen have a whaling business . in the present day , our port be reinvent itself for the next generation , with the green energy job of the future and with business such as vestas and nearby nova deliver wind and tidal energy . stitch into our community be so many site of natural beauty , with the water of leith flow through the heart of our constituency and be hug by the firth of forth . with the world ’s large art festival on our doorstep , we house the scottish national portrait gallery , leith theatre , customs house , north edinburgh arts , edinburgh playhouse and the new dunard concert centre , which be currently under construction . alongside our film and music studio , we be home to many author , artist , musician and poet . i could go on , and i possibly have for too long already , but this be by no mean an exhaustive list , and it do not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . i have yet to mention what make edinburgh north and leith truly great : simply , it be our people . be elect to this house to represent my home and my community be truly the honour of my life . i would like to thank everyone who trust i with their vote . for those who do not , i hope that during my time in this place i can evidence that i will champion our home . i understand that there be so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , edinburgh be a tale of two city . too many have be leave behind and suffer through decade of neglect . poverty remain stubbornly high and be a reality for so many child . in our city , food bank have become the norm , where people already struggle to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than they . we have a housing emergency with more than 3,000 homeless people , many of whom be family with small child live in hotel room with no kitchen , resort to cooking meal each day from a kettle . we have the scourge of addiction etch on people ’s face , clear for all to see . while our public service be underfunde and break , our community be resilient . i think of people such as pauline bowie , recently honour for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteer and low - wag carer who work tirelessly each day for our community . our strength lie in the people of edinburgh north and leith , who be know for their warmth , compassion and determination . change people ’s life by offer hope be why this government be elect , and it be why we must deliver . my journey start , like all of we , before i be bear . i be bear in rottenrow maternity hospital in glasgow . yes , the house have not misheard i : there be a maternity hospital call rottenrow . when i be a baby , and before i have a voice , decision be make that would change and shape my life forever . i be lucky then , as i be now , to have people who love and nurture i . although my mum , dad and gran be no long live , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that i be in this place , as i leave school at 15 with few qualification and leave home not long after . it take i many year to find my place in this world , and i be so grateful for the love of my stepchildren david and zoe , for zak and for my wife melanie , for her love and support every day . to i , they be home . i thank all my friend , party activist , colleague and love one who have support i in my life and on my journey lead to this place . as a child grow up in the ' 80 in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seem inevitable that i would end up as a proud product of the labour and trade union movement . in my work life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to be a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the children ’s panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy have always be my passion . i have learn through life that when other give up on you , it be easy to give up on yourself . my promise to everyone in edinburgh north and leith be that i will not give up , and i will fight for everyone ’s right to thrive . i will be their voice in this place , and as be leith ’s motto , i will always persevere .