thank you , madam deputy speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this debate on remembrance and veteran . i congratulate my hon . friend the members for nuneaton ( jodie gosling ) and for chipping barnet ( dan tomlinson ) , and the hon . member for reigate ( rebecca paul ) , on their excellent contribution . it be an honour to attend the festival of remembrance organise just over a week ago by the leicestershire and rutland royal british legion at de montfort hall . that festival be an outstanding tribute to those who have serve in the military and those who be currently serve . it pay thank to our armed force with some outstanding performance from local musician and contemporary dancer . however , it be the harrowing account of those who experience the d - day landing that will stay with i . it will be a privilege to be involve in the many remembrance event across the constituency . it be the honour of my life to have be elect to serve as the mp for north west leicestershire . in that role , i be follow andrew bridgen , who serve the community proudly for 14 year . while we do not share much in term of our politic , i know that he work hard for his constituent . while i be reference former mp , i have to go back far to our former labour mp , the late david taylor , who sadly die in office in 2009 . it will be no surprise to those who know david that he be fondly remember today in the constituency . north west leicestershire be in the heart of the national forest . it be a fast - grow area , with the high housing growth in leicestershire and an equally impressive growth in employment opportunity . none of this be surprising , consider our transport link : we have an international airport , east midlands airport , which include one of the large freight operation in the country . however , like so many other area that have see massive growth , we have be lag behind in term of infrastructure . local people need to see delivery of our commitment to expand public service , rather than the scaling - back we see for the past 14 year under the conservatives . i be proud to be the first female mp in the history of north west leicestershire . recently , i have the pleasure of attend the unveiling of the newly refurbish mother and child statue in coalville . stuart warburton , a local historian , have kindly check for i , and we think that it be the first statue of a lone woman to be instal in the whole of leicestershire . that award - win statue , first instal in 1963 , depict a woman proudly stride forward with her son while hold a shopping bag contain many item link to the constituency , include a lump of coal , an oil tanker , a yarn bobbin and a dolly . it occur to i that there be no well way of showcase our constituency than by consider some of the item in her bag . north west leicestershire have a rich mining heritage . the coalmine industry have be so important to the development of north west leicestershire that it be literally give its name to the main urban centre , coalville . the coalfield power britain , and kegworth — also in my constituency — be just a stone ’ throw away from the last coal - fire power station in the uk , which close just a few week ago . as be customary in a maiden speech , i will briefly adopt the role of travel agent : i highly recommend that everyone do a tour arrange by the snibston heritage trust in coalville . snibston have one of the last remain example of above - ground working of the coalmine . we also have many pit wheel dot across the constituency , remind we of what previously lie beneath our foot . while in coalville , visitor can pop into the belvoir centre to sample the famous birds bakery jam tart . my constituency be home to another character who enjoy sweet thing : just a few mile up the road , in the wonderful town of ashby - de - la - zouch , we recently have instal a paddington bear on a bench . for the thrill seeker , we have donington park , home to motogp and motorbike racing , and for the heavy metal fan among we , it be also home to download festival every june . i turn to the oil tanker in the bag . as with our coal heritage , north west leicestershire ’s fingerprint be all over the rail industry . the oil tanker represent william stableford ’s wagon work , which deliver a large contract for english and foreign railway . it be perhaps ironic that my constituency have no passenger rail service at all , even though the manufacturer siemens complete the signal work for the elizabeth line from its base in the constituency . one of my major goal in this house be to get the ivanhoe line back run for passenger . this trainline be originally create in the 1830 by the great industrialist and father of the railway , george stephenson . reopen it have the potential to create a beautiful trainline travel through the greenery of the national forest . the national forest line — now that sound nice ! north west leicestershire have other industry , too . it be no secret that leicestershire have a long history with the british textile industry , hence the yarn bobbin in the bag . h seal elastics have be knit in the constituency since 1898 and currently provide textile for use in military personal protective equipment — key equipment for our service personnel today . north west leicestershire be also the home of palitoy , which produce the dolly in the bag and the action man figurine — a character that seize the day and get stuff do . the content of a north west leicestershire shopping bag today would be similar to the content of everyone ’s shopping bag at home , as the constituency be now home to a selection of food and drink manufacturer . in that shopping bag , there would be a selection of key produce from local farmer , kp nuts , mcvitie ’s biscuit , a mars bar , jacob ’s cream cracker , quality street , and some of the mr freeze ice pop that i enjoy with the secretary of state for business and trade a few month ago after a tour of the refresco beverage factory . during my time in this house , i hope to be an action woman — someone who add to our north west leicestershire bag with clean waterway , well public service for all and , most importantly , an anytime day return ticket on the ivanhoe line .