thank you , madam deputy speaker . may i thank hon . member who have make their first speech today for set the bar so high ? i hope i can live up to the standard that they have set . i be send to this place by the constituent of lichfield , a constituency that include not only the city itself , but the town of burntwood and around 40 village and hamlet in the great county of staffordshire . i be proud to serve the area that have be my home since before i know to call anywhere home and where i hope it will be for many , many more year to come . my predecessor in this house be sir michael fabricant . he be knight in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 year represent first the constituency of mid staffordshire and then lichfield in this house . thirty - two year in total sir michael serve , and i think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . should i be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 year ' time , madame deputy speaker , i can only hope to have such a head of hair . it be , however , to longevity that i wish to turn now . although i have receive advice from some colleague not to mention the domesday book , i can neatly sidestep that as the record history of my constituency date back some 1,000 year before william the conqueror to the roman invasion and the establishment of letocetum , a roman fort and later settlement near the crossroad of watling street and rykneld street in my constituency . the crossing of those two road remain an important place throughout the roman and saxon period , and , in the 7th century , chad of mercia establish a cathedral and diocese in lichfield , which still exist today . in just over a week ’s time , i will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — i think — the 58th dean of lichfield cathedral . the right reverend jan macfarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the church in the local community and beyond . the 7th century be also noteworthy for the burying of the staffordshire hoard , which be uncover in hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroad of watling street and rykneld street . the large collection of anglo - saxon gold ever find , the hoard be already have , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isle , before there be an england , a scotland , a wales or a northern ireland . let i move on from the 7th century . over the come year , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surround area maintain its rural and agrarian aspect for many century to come . in this time , the area do produce innumerable great life , and , while they be far too numerous to mention all of they here , i should note gregory king , the world ’s first economic statistician ; elias ashmole , whose collection found the ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the uk ; david garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician erasmus darwin , a found member of the lunar society who have a rather famous grandson ; the poet , anna seward ; thomas gisborne of yoxall lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of william wilberforce ; the painter john louis petit , who be have a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; frederick oakeley , who translate the word to " o come all ye faithful " in lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , samuel johnson , a man of letter and the author of the first dictionary of the english language . johnson ’s heir , samuel barber , be a freed slave who would go on to run a school in burntwood , decade before tom jenkins would begin teach in teviothead in scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the uk . before i move on from some famous people from around the area , i should mention a local success story in sophie capewell . lichfield ’s golden girl bring home not just a gold medal from paris this year , but a world record as part of team gbs fantastic effort . in do so , she end my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , nether stowe in lichfield , and although i have hop to hold that title a little long than 32 day i be happy to be disappoint on that point . return to my historical tour of lichfield and its surround area , we reach the early and mid-19th century , and the town of burntwood , a conurbation of mining village , which grow up some four mile from lichfield and have a similarly proud history . its most notable resident be the fundraiser and campaigner stephen sutton , who raise million for the teenage cancer trust despite his diagnosis . we lose he far too soon , at the age of just 19 . he be make an mbe for his fundraising , so it be more than fitting that burntwood town council remember he through a student award name in his honour . not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , burntwood also take its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , st anne ’s church in chasetown become the first in the country to have electric lighting . today , the people of burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining area . that be show by the great example of the spark café and burntwood be a friend , which have do so much to step in to replace service cut during 14 long year of conservative government . if we be discuss burntwood , we can not forget the giant - kill exploit of chasetown fc in the fa cup of 2007 - 08 . at some point , i will forgive the members for cardiff . burntwood be not the only part of my constituency that have a mining history . the village of handsacre also more than play its part in power the industry of the 19th and 20th century . it be also the village where my old man teach his first lesson as a probationary teacher in the 1970 . as for the suggestion that his geordie accent be in part responsible for his hiring in a school build to teach the child of new arrival from the north - east , that remain suspect , if unconfirmed . mining be not the only industry that find its way to my part of staffordshire . many of we will recognise the name armitage shanks , but few will know its link to the village of armitage , just a short trip up rugeley road from handsacre . as the new government focus their legislative agenda on growth , i remind colleague that while many of we may have already spend a penny with armitage shanks , they be all welcome to visit and spend many more in the come year . all this industry mean that the canal come to my constituency . the coventry canal and the trent and mersey canal be still navigable today , and the work of the lichfield and hatherton canal restoration trust should be commend , as it aim to restore that link as a green and blue way over the come year . have touch again on transport , i will complete the circle and return to the crossroad that make letocetum . watle street , or the a5 , as it be now know , and rykneld street , the a38 , be major transport artery that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . the a38 in particular have help to establish a logistic centre in the village of fradley on the site of the former raf lichfield . fan of the bbc ’s " bargain hunt " will know fradley well , give the regular appearance of richard winterton and his auctioneer on that show . i hope that i can get as much airtime as they do . slightly far up the a38 be the national memorial arboretum near alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . i advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in november but on any day . i be sure that in the come month the secretary of state for transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . on a dissimilar note , the first travelodge in the uk be open slightly up the road some 39 year ago , near the village of barton - under - needwood , although that village should be much well remember as the home of the holland tug of war team . found in 1970 , the team have represent england at numerous international tournament , and even bring home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championship . it be to this constituency that i will return during the recess . i look forward to speak to my constituent about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plan , and many other issue that be on their lip . i look forward to bring those story back to this place , so that i can continue to advocate on my constituent ' behalf .