i hugely respect the hon . gentleman . i know he be a bruiser , but i have be look forward to his question . i think he would celebrate the 13,000 apprentice in chesterfield since may 2010 , the 11,270 apprentice at level 2 and 3 , or the £ 19.5 million investment in chesterfield college . if i be he , i would be urge his party to stop its plan to destroy the apprenticeship levy , which would halve the number of apprenticeship start overall . it would be back to square one . as always , labour front benchers be obsess with quantity over quality . we have transform the quality of apprenticeship . seventy per cent of occupation be cover by over 680 apprenticeship standard . there have be a 6 % increase since this time last year in the number of under-19 start , and overall start be up by 3 % over the same period . the crucial thing be achievement , which be up by 22 % . female stem start be up by 7.5 % , start by people with disability be up by 6.3 % , and start by people from ethnic minority be up to 15.4 % of start , compare with 10.6 % in 2010 . not only be we focus on quality over quantity ; we be improve the number of start and achievement too . i be pleased to visit loughborough not so long ago with my hon . friend . she be passionate about fe and skill . i know homefield college well ; it be a brilliant college and i be glad it be recently allocate £ 95,000 for capital spend . we have the £ 80 million support internship scheme for those with special educational need ; an fe bursary scheme for special need teacher ; specialist national careers service advice for young people ; and the send code of practice to prepare young people for adulthood . we be do everything possible to support fe for those with special educational need , to ensure that they get on the ladder of opportunity . i thank my right hon . and learn friend for his question . arthur balfour be a great man and identify the need for a homeland for british jews . that be why antisemite do not like he and be slash his picture . i and the secretary of state be spend a lot of time with jewish student group . i have be to leeds university to spend time with jewish student , because the chaplain there be attack , and we be work with universities uk . we have announce a £ 7 million package to give to jewish student group , include the university jewish chaplaincy , to try to stop antisemitism on campus . we be also develop a quality seal that we will ask university to adopt , so that they deal properly with antisemitic incident . last week , i and the secretary of state have a meeting with the office for students , to make clear to the regulator that antisemitism across our university be not acceptable .