i thank the hon . member for wimbledon ( mr kohler ) for secure today ’s debate . i be incredibly proud of many thing in beckenham and penge , but particularly st christopher ’s hospice . it be found in 1967 by dame cicely saunders , the founder of the global hospice movement . the movement come about because dame cicely , a nurse who be research pain control , believe that more could be do to help people at the end of their life . that include deal with physical symptom and tackle the stigma around painkiller , but also the idea that people should be able to achieve emotional closure through individualised care and support . the assisted die debate have be mention today by member from across the house . i have over 2,000 constituent contact i about that debate , and there be roughly a 50:50 split between those who support and oppose the bill , but every single one of they be unite by compassion , and they relay their experience of see people at the end of their life . i pay tribute this evening to a woman i be incredibly fortunate to work for in this place , dame tessa jowell . tessa be a very good friend , a mentor and an amazing boss . six year ago next week , she make her final speech in parliament . tessa be diagnose with a terminal brain tumour . i be with she from her diagnosis through to write the press release on the night she die . she finish her speech in the other place by say : " in the end , what give a life meaning be not only how it be live , but how it draw to a close . " — [ official report , house of lords , 25 january 2018 ; vol . 788 , c. 1170 . ] i sincerely believe that . st christopher ’s hospice give meaning to life as it draw to a close . it do so by take a holistic approach ; it care for a patient ’s physical , spiritual and psychological wellbeing . i have see at first hand the intimate bond and relationship establish between staff , volunteer , patient and family . the hospice be one of the large provider of palliative care education in the world . for all those reason , we in beckenham and penge all support st christopher ’s hospice , which be a huge part of our community . i be fundraise for the hospice long before i become an mp , and i continue to do so . people help in lot of different way , and i want to give a special mention to penge fest , which be south - east london ’s answer to oktoberfest . local business such as brewery , the three hounds and designer drapes , organisation include friend of cator park and penge business improvement district , and many more come together with local resident for a day of fun and fundraising that include an oompah band . the event bring penge high street to a standstill last summer . we will continue to fundraise for st christopher ’s hospice , but we should not have to do so to pay for the basic . support our hospice benefit everyone , from the nhs to patient , and that be why i welcome the government ’s announcement , just before christmas , of an extra £ 100 million in hospice funding through the extension of child ’s hospice grant . that will ease the strain on hospice and benefit patient , as well as the wide health and care system . however , hospice still face pressure , include increase demand for service , the rise cost of provision and discrepancy in funding across the country , which many member have mention this evening . that be why , as the minister recognise , hospice must be a key part of the government ’s plan to shift care into the community , include through the provision of at - home care service . that can ease the acute pressure on the nhs . i invite the minister to visit st christopher ’s to see its fantastic work for himself , and to discuss the role of hospice in the government ’s commitment to ensure that every person have access to high - quality end of life care . i thank the hon . member for wimbledon again for secure today ’s debate , and the government for the vital work that they be undertake on this important issue . hospice in devon be already struggle before the government ’s budget last autumn , which introduce a hike in employer ' national insurance . to talk first about the national picture , we have hear that a third of funding for hospice tend to come from the state , through the nhs . however , in devon , it be less than a fifth . for hospicare , a charity base in exeter , the figure be 18 % , while for seton hospice at home and sidmouth hospice at home , the figure be 0 % ; they do not receive any funding at all from nhs devon . last year , i get together with ben bradshaw and simon jupp , the former mps for exeter and for east devon . we put aside our political difference — simon jupp and i be contest the seat of honiton and sidmouth at the time — write to the chair of nhs devon , the brilliant sarah wollaston , and secure an extra £ 500,000 for hospice care in devon . none the less , the charity hospicare still have a deficit of £ 2.5 million per year . follow the national insurance announcement last autumn , the guardian report in mid - november that whitehall be consider option to relieve the financial pressure on hospice . it suggest that civil servant be weigh up the possibility of offset the ni rise , fund hospice nursing staff directly , or set up a " direct funding pot " for hospice . follow the announcement on 19 december and the christmas gift of capital funding for hospice , it seem that the government choose the direct funding pot for hospice . the problem with the additional capital funding be that a lot of hospice do not have physical building . they do not have infrastructure . they provide nursing service and hospice at home , so they can not simply offset day - to - day spending with that capital spending . they be completely miss out , and that be the experience for seaton hospice at home and sidmouth hospice at home service in my east devon constituency . in conclusion , these charity step in where the nhs do not . provide care be central to the government ’s vision of shift treatment from hospital to community , yet the current trajectory seem to be force patient back into overstretched , acute hospital .