i pay tribute to my hon . friend as sara ’s mp for raise the horror that have take place . of course , i agree that datum sharing between public authority be vital to ensure that such a case do not happen again . but it be not enough , and , alone , it will not prevent the catastrophic and systematic negligence of surrey county council . this be the same department that have the high number of statutory breach relate to child report to the local government and social care ombudsman for over two year . the department cover information up from its own county council and scrutiny committee for more than 14 month , and only disclose it when my five liberal democrat surrey mp colleague and i publicly call it out . surrey county council objectively contribute to the death of jennifer chalkley , oscar nash and sara sharif by ignore exist legislation . childhood be a precious thing . it can shape we or break we . too many childhood have be steal — by poverty , abuser and the inaction of the previous government . in britain today , 3.5 million child be grow up in absolute poverty . more be be place in unregistered child ’s home , and it be estimate by the education policy institute that 300,000 child be miss from the education system . although government member seem to have wake up to the evil of child abuse and exploitation , they can not deny that their lack of care and urgency on these issue have make our child more vulnerable . their failure to act have create an environment in which it be estimate that almost half a million child experience some sort of sexual abuse in this country every year , and their failure to implement a single recommendation from the jay report have make it easy for groomer in every corner of our country to continue to rob our child of their childhood , their future and their dignity . that be the cost of the previous government ’s do - nothing approach to child abuse , and they should be ashamed . the previous government ’s failure have also see council struggle to cover the spiral cost of placement . in croydon , where i be privileged to be an mp , the council have have to cough up almost £ 87 million to cover the cost of child service . with 31 % of child there grow up in the shadow of poverty , croydon ’s young people have be fail by the inaction of the previous government . it be time to end the previous government ’s addiction to fail our child , and support the bill . the bill cut the cost of send child to school by introduce free breakfast club and tackle the cost of school uniform . it also prevent vulnerable child from fall through the crack by bring in a register of child who be educate from home , and introduce a unique identifier , so that child be visible across the system . the bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . a vote against it be a vote against child ’s safety , their childhood and their future . it be shameful that , even in opposition , conservative members continue to drag their foot on child protection , continue to fail our child , and continue to put the interest of their party before the good interest of our country . unlike the opposition , we will not turn our back on our child , we will not accept failure , and we will finally put the wellbeing of our child first . child grow up in bournemouth deserve the good start in life — nothing less . whoever you be , and wherever you come from , you should be able to go as far as your talent take you , and those talent should be rigorously , systematically and compassionately nourish for everyone . i would not be here but for the teacher of my childhood . i thank alan garner and christine moore — it feel really weird to name they in full . i thank mr garner and mrs moore , who do so much to enable i to get here . they stay late in the classroom so that i could have a safe , warm place to do my homework . they inspire i to do well when circumstance tell i that i could not , so thank you to they . the reality be that for many child , opportunity be too often limited , and their background can have a decisive impact on the life that they can build . i welcome the bill because it will help every child to achieve and thrive at a school with excellent teaching and high standard . it will focus on disadvantaged child and those with special educational need and disability . in bournemouth , we have a particularly significant send crisis . the bill will get child ready for the school day by provide free breakfast club in primary school . i want to give a shout - out to pokesdown community primary school . chef russ and ali bayliss be two fantastic leader provide nutritious breakfast for young child . the bill will ease the financial burden on parent by limit the number of brand uniform item . i be particularly pleased about that , because only this week , i be contact by a constituent , richard merghani , base in southbourne , who raise concern about the cost of school uniform . i welcome the government ’s proposal ; estimate show that it could save parent over £ 50 per child on the back - to - school shop . i want to bring the voice of constituent and local educational expert into this debate . i be think of david nayler , who have be the headteacher at stourfield junior school for 11 year ; lyn gaudreau , who have be a senior principal adviser to dorset local authority education authority ; simon adorian , a former headteacher ; patrick connolly , a former educational professional ; and caroline ellis , a nursery manager . they have inform everything that i would have say , if i have long than four minute , and everything that i will contribute as the bill develop and pass through the commons . i thank they for their expertise , and for what they contribute . we should really be listen to they , not conservative members , who have disgrace themselves in this debate and in recent day . i thank the government front benchers for bring forward the bill and prioritise child so early in the life of this labour government . it feel like unfinished business . the last labour government do so much to improve the lot of child and young people ; we be just pick up where they leave off . i look forward to see the bill progress , and to the future of all our child be so much bright .