i be grateful for be able to contribute to this debate . it be a privilege to follow so many powerful speech , and the speech deliver by my hon . friend the member for luton north ( sarah owen ) be the most powerful i have hear in this place . her word rise to the moment ; mine be inadequate by comparison . i can only thank she for speak so powerfully about an issue that affect so many of we . i welcome the new secretary of state to his place , and thank he for the way in which he open this debate . at the outset , i draw the house ’s attention to my background as an officer of the gmb union and my current unpaid role as chair of the gmb parliamentary group . in that capacity , i thank the hon . member for dundee central ( chris law ) , as he leave the chamber , for what he say about members ' staff in this place . gmb be the union that represent the majority of people who work in support of we as member of this house . i be sad to say that they be perhaps uniquely vulnerable to some of the abusive practice that have sham our democracy for too long , and i be at a loss to understand how the relevant lords amendment be ever bring forward from the other place . i wish to speak specifically against lords amendment 121 , 11 and 1 , and in support of the government amendment that seek to strike they out . before do so , i want to say a few word about my hon . friend the member for ellesmere port and bromborough ( justin madders ) , who be not in his place at the moment . as a former shadow minister and latterly as the sponsoring minister for this bill , he unfailingly and characteristically bring graft , industry and good humour to the brief . this will be a weak and less bill without he , and those of we who support the bill and its principle owe he a debt of thank . i be glad that my hon . friend the member for halifax ( kate dearden ) , who bring a real depth of knowledge and understanding to the role of under - secretary of state for business and trade , be now guard the bill ’s passage to royal assent . i know that she will be both pro - worker and pro - business in her approach . i believe that lords amendment 121 contain significant drafting weakness and would fundamentally alter the nature of the propose and restore school support staff negotiate body . first , the amendment state that employer may introduce new term and condition of employment that " meet or exceed any minimum standard set by the sssnb . " in legal term , however , the sssnb will not set or determine those standard ; it be a statutory forum for negotiation . the actual condition of employment will be set through regulation draft by the secretary of state and approve by parliament . secondly , the actual parameter of a future pay and grade structure will be negotiate by the relevant party : the representative of employer , and the representative of employee . that be the spirit of the original 2008 act and the actual operation of the sssnb in its original incarnation . give my experience as a former trade union officer represent school support staff , i know the contractual issue that need to be address be so complicated that they can not be satisfactorily resolve on the floor of the house . that complexity be a result of 14 year of drift , dither and political disinter in the 800,000 support staff worker in england who keep our school go , and it be a damn indictment of the decision to cancel the original sssnb . finally , lords amendment 121 risk create confusion at a local level . the amendment state that employer must not be restrict from introduce " improved term and condition " , but change to contract be not merely introduce ; they be consult on and agree , either individually or collectively , under exist statute . the effect of the somewhat loose wording in the amendment may be to encourage local attempt to make unilateral variation to contract and term and condition . member who support this amendment might say that only improvement could be make under it , but both " improvement " and " detriment " be subjective term . they be in the eye of the beholder , and i believe that if the amendment be to be carry through , the actual effect may be to increase the number of court case concern school support staff . i urge the opposition not to push a point , and to reconsider their wide opposition to the school support staff negotiate body . school support staff undertake essential role , and they deserve the same professional standard and professional respect that be afford to teacher . that be what the restoration of the school support staff negotiate body will achieve . we have debate the official opposition ’s amendment many time at various stage , but i want to comment on some of the lords amendment that stand in the name of liberal democrat peer , either in whole or in part . when i enter this chamber at the start of the debate , i do not presume that those amendment necessarily enjoy the support of the liberal democrat front benchers in the commons , but i be afraid that impression be dispel by the contribution from the liberal democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for richmond park ( sarah olney ) . i be at a loss to understand how the radical change in approach have come about among the liberal democrats in this house between committee stage , report , third reading and the debate that we be hold today . in fact , listen to the hon . lady , i feel an uncomfortable sense of déjà vu : it be like watch the rose garden press conference all over again . after all , her front - bench colleague — the hon . member for chippenham ( sarah gibson ) and for torbay ( steve darling)—were at all time appropriately critical in committee , but they be essentially supportive of the principle of enhance worker ’ right . lord amendment 11 , which be originally a conservative amendment in the commons but now stand in the name of a liberal democrat peer , be not support by the liberal democrats in committee . lord amendment 1 , which stand in the name of both liberal democrat and conservative peer , seek to amend clause 1 . however , the liberal democrats support that clause in committee and only voice concern , which be reasonable , that timely guidance to employer must be issue to accompany it ; indeed , they vote with labour members when it be put to a vote in committee . i fear that this amendment , too , could have serious unintended consequence . the clause that it seek to amend put a duty on employer to offer regular - hour contract to " workers”—that be the language use in the legislation as it stand at the moment — but the amendment seek to convert that duty into a right to request by employee . " employee " be , of course , a more restrictive category than " worker " ; indeed , clause 148 of the bill as draft make it clear that for the purpose of the interpretation of this bill , " worker " and " employee " mean two different thing . many of the people who be class only as " worker " be precisely those who may benefit the most from these protection . some 5 million people who be nominally casual worker in sector such as social care , construction , hospitality , security and retail could be exclude from these protection if the amendment , which stand in the name of conservative and liberal democrat peer , be to be carry . i hope it be not the intention of those on the conservative benches to exclude those 5 million people . at the start of this debate , i could not believe that that be the intention of the liberal democrats , but now i be not so sure .