accord to keep britain tidy , litter and fly - tipping cost the country £ 1 million a year . do my hon . friend agree that that be money that could go to frontline service , so it be about time we take more stringent measure to change behaviour , along with some good enforcement ? as we have hear , the bill be broad in scope . before i turn to the couple of amendment that i support , i want to recognise that the bill ’s scope be evidence by the breadth and number of amendment and new clause . it be worth gently remind ourselves that a number of the measure be carry over from the criminal justice bill , which sadly fall due to the general election almost a year ago , though there be obviously new clause and amendment . i hope the minister be in listen mode , in change mode and be willing to work across the house , and i hope that she accept some of these amendment , because they would go a long way to far improve this legislation . i have read through the bill , and much of it go right to the heart of the community we seek to serve and represent . there be topic in the bill that regularly pop up in my inbox and i be sure into colleague ' inboxe as well . i want to cover two specific area . the first be fly - tipping and litter — an issue that i have speak about on many occasion in this chamber since i be first elect . i support the amendment and new clause table by the shadow minister , my hon . friend the member for stockton west ( matt vickers ) . in an intervention early , i touch on the cost of litter to the country . i think i say that it be £ 1 million , but i mean £ 1 billion ; i hope that can be firmly correct , because it be a big difference . the principle be the same — it be money that could go back into our community — but £ 1 billion spend on manage litter and fly - tipping be a huge amount of money that could otherwise buy a huge amount of service for constituency up and down the country . i want to start by align myself with , and commend the speech of , my hon . friend the members for morecambe and lunesdale ( lizzi collinge ) , for ribble valley ( maya ellis ) , for monmouthshire ( catherine fookes ) , for gower ( tonia antoniazzi ) and for walthamstow ( ms creasy ) . i be proud to stand alongside my colleague and be proud to listen to what they have to say today . and because of what they have to say today , i have less to say , which will allow more people to speak . i have be send here by my constituent to defend and further their right to safe and illegal abortion . my inbox have be inundate with message from constituent who be concern , and who want to be able to have safe and legal abortion . they want to be remove from the criminal justice system , as my hon . friend the member for gower say , because we have situation where clinically vulnerable woman , who have go through some of the bad experience that anybody can go through , will in some case be arrest straight from the hospital ward , hurry to cell and make to feel unmitigated level of shame and guilt , on top of the physical and mental trauma they have already experience .