i congratulate my right hon . friend the chancellor not only on be the first woman ever to deliver a budget to this house , but on be the first chancellor to deliver a join - up , grow - up budget in 14 year . represent a welsh constituency , i be proud that this budget provide the large funding boost—£21 billion — that wales have receive since devolution . that be proof , if ever that be need , that only two labour governments work together will ever properly listen to , understand and fight to meet the need of the people of wales , who have be ignore , belittle or attack by generation of conservatives . we all know that our broken public service would collapse overnight without the selfless dedication of the countless woman and man who , day in and day out , serve as unpaid carer . i be particularly pleased that the budget have raise the amount by nearly £ 200 a month that carer can earn before lose out on carer ’s allowance . turn to agriculture , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for farming , and have grow up on a small family farm , i know there have be much disquiet over the change to agricultural property relief . i have be in constant communication with our excellent local nfu policy staff since the budget , and i be listen to their concern and feed they directly back to defra . it be unsurprise that farmer be worried , give that many journalist and the conservative party have unfortunately be selectively focus on a £ 1 million figure that do not reflect the reality of the policy . let i seek to reassure small family farmer and repeat the word of the exchequer secretary to the treasury , my hon . friend the member for ealing north ( james murray ) last week , who say : " the total value of a farm should not be confuse with the value be pass on at death . multiple family member can own part of a farm . for example , if an individual jointly own a farm worth £ 3 million with their partner , only £ 1.5 million be in their estate at death . " those be wise word , which will give comfort to many who have be mislead by selective and mischievous comment on the budget . with the additional £ 500,000 relief for each partner if there be a property on the farm , a farm worth up to £ 3 million may still pay zero inheritance tax . yes , this budget recognise that family farm form part of the backbone of rural community , but it also recognise that our rural community rely every bit as much on strong , function public service . this historic budget call time on austerity , and bring stability back .