it be an honour to make my maiden speech , particularly on this critically important debate on the infected blood scandal . i ask the house to allow i a temporary shift in tone , so that i can celebrate the community that send i here . like many hon . member ' constituency , the constituency i have the privilege to represent , leeds north west , be a new seat with a long history . i be sure most member know where leeds be , but i describe it as be right at the heart of the uk . i be deeply grateful to the thousand of voter who have put their trust in i , and as i say on election night , regardless of how they vote , i be determined to represent and serve our community in this place . i begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , both of whom be still member of this house . i thank the right hon . member for daventry ( stuart andrew ) for be gracious and friendly and for his commitment to our community , especially guiseley , and i thank my hon . friend the member for leeds central and headingley ( alex sobel ) and his fantastic team for their commitment to our community and to tackle climate change . i also pay tribute to those who come before : greg mulholland , paul truswell and the late harold best , who all have a continued presence in the constituency . those esteemed gentleman have all fight for our community , and i be honour to stand on their shoulder , but i say " gentleman " for good reason : i be proud to be the first woman ever to represent leeds north west , the place where i be bear and raise , as be my parent before i . see more woman elect to parliament than ever before matter . it matter to the woman and girl across our community — to alice in otley , navdeeb in adel and chloe in horsforth . we have not have enough female mps in my home city , but we be make up for lost time . leed now boast the first female chancellor ever , so there be progress , friend , progress . leed north west have an incredible history . the stunning norman church in adel date back to the 12th century ; it be where my parent be married , where i be christen , and where my grandfather lie at rest . far west be otley chevin . member may not yet have have the chance to visit otley chevin , but we would not be here without it . the stone from the chevin provide the foundation for this very parliament when it be rebuild in the 1840 . it should not be a surprise that it be yorkshire that keep this house ground . in leeds north west , our foot be always plant firmly on that bedrock , but our eye remain on the horizon , ready to embrace the future . our constituency be a vibrant hub of entrepreneurship and creativity , a legacy that continue to thrive today . abraham moon in guiseley , a fabric company establish in 1837 , still supply international fashion house today , while emis — which begin in the 1980 in horsforth — now flourish in beautiful rawdon as the lead provider of datum support to the nhs . we be home to west yorkshire ’s only airport , leeds bradford , and i be pleased to meet with jet2 ’s chief executive officer steve just this week to discuss how the aviation sector can innovate to decarbonise . should member wish to stop for a bite to eat , they should look no far than the thrive bar and restaurant of vibrant horsforth . it be a constituency burst with joyful community fair and fete , from guiseley festival to yeadon carnival and from rawdon summer gala to the arthington and bramhope show — that last one come complete with a human fruit machine . there be no strong pride than yorkshire pride , and our community spirit be a great source of strength . however , as in many place , people be feel overwhelmed and concerned about their future and that of their child and grandchild . many of the people i have meet on the doorstep also feel let down — let down by politician and by the institution they have put their trust in over decade . the infected blood scandal be the most extreme and harrowing example of such systematic failure : people place their trust in doctor and the government to protect they , and that trust be betray . i be proud that this government and this prime minister will introduce a duty of candour law to prevent future cover - up like the infected blood and post office scandal . i also share deep concern about the other great challenge face our community . mental health figure be horrify . the global mind project have reveal that the uk have the high rate of mental distress in the world and rank second worst in overall mental health . people be work hard , yet get unhealthier and unhappy , and of course , the climate and nature crisis loom . we need thing to change ; the country vote for change , and it be change that propel i into politic . my journey begin with the climate crisis . we know that if we get it wrong , we face disaster — particularly for the most vulnerable among we — but if we get it right , we unlock enormous opportunity for our society . in 2003 , i join the local leeds branch of friends of the earth and launch a campaign for the uk ’s first climate change bill . everyone tell i that it be impossible ; that it be too ambitious and too radical . there be no way that the treasury would ever allow a carbon budget — but , friend , they do . we turn that campaign into the fourth most support campaign in parliament ’s history , with cross - party backing from member across the house . the last labour government turn that bill into an act in 2008 , under my right hon . friend the member for doncaster north ( ed miliband ) , whom i be honour to be work with again . under this act , britain decarbonise fast than any other rich country . this act have now become a global benchmark adopt by other nation — and that , i say to my hon . friend , be what global leadership look like . why be i share this ? it be because politic must be about real change or it be about nothing . i want to serve our community , and improve our school , healthcare and public service . when i think about change , i think about my grandmother , marjorie simms . she challenge the status quo . she live in horsforth in the1950s . there be not that many woman drive then , but marjorie do . there be not that many woman wear trouser , but marjorie do . majorie develop breast cancer , and most parent in the 1950 avoid talk to their child , but marjorie show they her mastectomy so they could understand . she die at 43 , the age i enter parliament . majorie do thing differently and her spirit live on in i . we have see too much promise and too little delivery in recent year — endless debate about challenge , but a lack of energy for real solution . politic should be about action , not just word . the seed of change can be see within our community . as a government , our role be to water they and create the condition for they to flourish . leed north west be willing to play its role in full . we have the leader , we have the idea and we have the " get stuff do " attitude that personify yorkshire — like the student i meet recently at ralph thoresby and green meadows or the cadet in my constituency , who be ambitious about the difference we can make ; like the horsforth shed set up a couple of year ago by ex - teacher base on the national man ’s shed model and support male mental health , but expand to include many other vulnerable member of the community ; like those from otley 2030 who decide they want to be a beacon of hope and create a live laboratory in the town to create climate friendly and sustainable solution where people and nature thrive ; and like brian who , after a death in morrison car park in guiseley , set up defibrillator all over the community so that lifesave equipment be on hand and there be a network of community activist service they . let we not forget the gold medal olympians in our community — the brownlee brother and the cyclist tom pidcock — who inspire we all with their dedication and achievement . we be indeed a hotbed of world - class talent . people in leeds north west do not wait for change to come to they ; they make it happen . they be the doer and the problem solver , and i will play my role in that same way . i will champion the green agenda by focus on practical solution that carve a british path towards a successful green transition . we will leverage our strength , whether it be world - lead research , support our good business mind , or unlock the public and private investment need to turbocharge a green economy . i will support the health of our community — mental health , physical health , community health — and i want to support our entrepreneur and creativity to grow our region . i promise to be a ferocious champion for my community , my beloved yorkshire and our country , and i will do it with joy . it may recently have become more fashionable across the pond , but i have be measure with joy for year , and there be always space for a little more joy . finally , i promise to listen , learn and reflect . no one have all the answer , but all of we have some of they . i commit to work constructively and collectively . i will endeavour to arrive with curiosity and non - judgment , because if we want to change the way we do thing , we must start in this moment , in this place and with these action .