i beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a bill to require the secretary of state to review the criminal injuries compensation authority ; and for connected purpose . from time to time , this house have ask itself the question : what value do we place on support for the victim of violent crime ? i believe that this be the right time to ask ourselves that question again . victim support can take many form , include non - financial measure . we have get well , but we must get well still , at recognise the lifelong impact that violent crime have on a person . victim would benefit from well sharing of information about support service , both public and voluntary , and the process for access nhs diagnostic and therapeutic support . that information sharing should start with the police , the ambulance service and the crown prosecution service , and i be pleased to hear recently from the cps west midland region about the enhanced victim support that be now in place . nevertheless , there will always be case in which financial loss have occur , or financial remedy be a necessary or otherwise appropriate mean of provide some measure of justice for those who have suffer assault . i think that member in all part of the house would wholeheartedly endorse the principle that , whenever possible , the perpetrator of violent crime should pay the cost of restitution . indeed , it be a welcome and remarkable achievement that the amount recover to fund support service through the victim surcharge — first introduce in 2007 — have nearly double over the last four year . however , the criminal injury compensation scheme exist because some offender lack , or can not be prove to possess , the asset or revenue to pay those cost — the so - call straw man of the justice system — and in still more case , the perpetrator of violence be never identify . crime statistic notoriously do not tell the full story , but in the west midlands police force area , nearly one in five violent assault be not prosecute because no suspect can be name . i commend the chief constable , craig guildford , and the police and crime commissioner , simon foster , for their success in increase the number and the share of identified assailant , but the point stand . the animate force behind the current criminal injury compensation scheme be a birmingham magistrate and the first secretary of the howard league for penal reform , margery fry , who lead a campaign in the 1950 under the clarion call of " justice for victims . " she argue that criminal injury could not be narrowly consider to be a private matter between the assailant and the victim . just as we provide for each other in time of sickness through national insurance , so too , she argue , a duty be owe by the state when it fail to prevent one citizen from injure another . in her word , " the state … can not disown all responsibility for its occasional failure to protect . " today that same principle be set out by the criminal injuries compensation authority , which say that payment be sometimes need as an " acknowledgement of harm and an important gesture of public sympathy . " the criminal injury compensation scheme be now an integral part of the justice system , even if it be — as the chair of the justice committee , my hon . friend the member for hammersmith and chiswick ( andy slaughter ) , put it last week — something of a " cinderella service " . nothing that i say today be intend as a criticism of the staff of the criminal injuries compensation authority ; they work hard in difficult circumstance , give that staff number have fall by a fifth since the current iteration of the scheme be introduce in 2012 . the civil service people survey show that they take pride and find professional fulfilment in their work , and , as someone who once receive an award from the scheme , i remain grateful to they . important and positive improvement have be make since , six year ago , the victims ' commissioner publish an excoriate report . let i say at this point how welcome it be to see the under - secretary of state for justice , the hon . member for pontypridd ( alex davies - jones ) , in her place . i know that she care deeply about victim support as well as have specialist knowledge of this issue , and i be grateful to she for her thoughtful response and conversation about it . however , it be also clear that failing remain within the system , as we hear last week when member across party contribute to a debate in westminster hall . i draw particular attention today to the delay that too many applicant still experience ; a lack of signposting or integration with wide support service , and a general lack of public awareness of the scheme itself ; the trauma of dog attack on postal worker and other victim by new and ban breed , the victim of which be mostly ineligible for compensation follow change to the scheme in 2012 ; the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse ; a supposedly £ 500,000 - a - year hardship fund , establish 13 year ago , that be now essentially a dead letter — the criterion be so restrictive that no payment have be make from it in the last seven year ; and the tariff system itself , as many serious and life - change injury be not cover at all . it be true that the upper cap on the scheme be generous by international standard , but the low limit of £ 1,000 have be freeze in cash term since 1992 . my hon . friend the member for derby north ( catherine atkinson ) refer in this place to annex b of the scheme , which define a " crime of violence " as include " a sexual assault to which a person do not in fact consent " . those be word and idea from another age . even if the court now adopt a more informed interpretation , the continued presence of that definition can only cause harm , and it must be strike from the scheme . these problem — and i believe , on the basis of my own casework and that of other member , that they do to an extent persist — impose a heavy burden on the victim of crime . like some other member , i bear the physical scar of violent crime , alongside other scar of a different and more subtle kind . i have speak previously , in another debate , about that experience , and i do not intend to repeat those word today . it be enough to ask hon . member to take it on trust that delay , the seemingly arbitrary rule of the scheme , the manner of the communication , and , sometimes , poor decision making can add to the sum of the pain that victim feel — a pain that can only be partially outweigh by the release that the end of the criminal injury process bring . a perpetrator might evade justice , but it be part of the nature of the trauma response that , at a slight or unexpected prompting , a victim may be compel to relive that crime again and again . that be why the victims ' commissioner have call for an overarching review of the scheme to establish " whether it actually fulfil its state remit : to acknowledge the harm suffer by victim of violent crime who have no other access to compensation , and to provide redress as part of a just and compassionate response . " that be what the bill , which i beg leave to introduce , would achieve . the legislation would set out a simple requirement for a fundamental review , and for ministers to report back to the house with proposal for further scrutiny and debate . i can not stand here and claim that easy answer exist to all these question . although i note that , to the good of my calculation , the cost of the scheme appear to be fall in real term , we live in straiten financial time . that be why it be well for reform of the scheme to be carry out in a deliberative manner , on the basis of accurate and recent evidence , and with the need of victim as the primary concern . to that end , i take heart from the minister ’s statement that the government do not plan change to the scheme " at this time " . she go on to say : " the clear message to i be that we need change , and i will be consider how government can well provide the support that victim need and deserve . " i also take heart from the prime minister ’s statement of personal support for the victim of violent crime when this matter be raise with he a fortnight ago by my hon . friend the member for warrington north ( charlotte nichols ) . this issue touch the life of people in every one of our constituency . no amount of money can return someone to their mental or physical state prior to an assault , but a well - function , fair and compassionate scheme can bring victim some measure of justice . question put and agree to . order , that laurence turner , charlotte nichols , michael wheeler , andy slaughter , warinder juss , antonia bance , chris bloore , catherine atkinson , kevin mckenna , mark sewards , tim roca and alistair strathern present the bill . laurence turner accordingly present the bill . bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on friday 13 june , and to be print ( bill 231 ) .