my right hon . friend be absolutely right : there be impact on both freeholder and leaseholder . different type of property and tenure be impact in different way . element of the rent charge regime will be extinguish by the 1977 act , which he rightly reference , in 2033 ; that have be in law since before i be bear . however , there be a number of other issue that need addressing , and the leasehold and freehold reform bill be introduce to address some of they . a whole range of reform be necessary across the leasehold sector , and the bill seek to address that , but as my right hon . friend outline , there be two main issue that this discussion of port marine have highlight : the variable service charge , and the rent charge point , which he just speak about a little more . the bill as it stand will absolutely make progress on variable service charge in a number of way . it will not fix what have happen in the past , but it absolutely seek to minimise the chance of it happen again . unjustified increase in variable service charge be not acceptable . any service charge must be transparent and communicate effectively , and there should be a clear route for challenge they if thing go wrong . the bill ensure that all leaseholder will receive : key minimum financial and non - financial information regularly , include a standardised service charge demand form ; an annual report of charge ; the timely provision of service charge account ; and the right to obtain other relevant information . that be a significant step forward , as i know from discussion with both leaseholder and freeholder in my constituency , and from have speak with colleague from all around the house who have similar issue . we be also take measure on service charge to ensure that leaseholder be not subject to unjustified legal cost . for the first time , they can , when appropriate , claim their cost from landlord if they go through the tribunal process and win . there will be a significant change on variable service charge as and when the bill pass through both houses . on fix rent charge , the bill introduce a framework to empower homeowner and to hold estate management company to account for the service they provide . there will need to be transparency of information . there will be a new legal requirement that estate management charge must be reasonable . for the first time , there will be an ability to challenge excessive cost through the tribunal , and to ensure that estate management company be hold to account . the measure will also cover admin fee , include deed of variation — my right hon . friend highlight that point . as i say , there will for the first time be a right to apply to the tribunal for redress . if there be a strong view , and proof , that the manage agent in charge be do something inappropriate or be not fulfil their duty , people can apply to a tribunal to have a substitute manager appoint . that will for the first time provide an opportunity for resident to highlight problem , and remove people who consistently cause problem . as i say in committee , we recognise in committee and from previous debate in the house the strength of feeling among colleague ; that have be show again by my right hon . friend in this debate , and by the contribution of other hon . member . we be consider far whether we can look at this area in more detail . i hope that i can soon say more from the government front bench about that , although i can not do so tonight . to conclude , my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue in this case and to highlight the key challenge that we see daily to do with when this system do not work . he raise how and when this system be not work for port marine . i hope there be restitution , and that a solution come as soon as possible . i recognise the individual example of when thing be not work , but the government be take action , in a very conservative way , recognise that we have to deal with these monopoly , smash the rent - seeker and remove distortion to make market more perfect . we must ensure that there will not be another port marine in 10 , 15 or 20 year ' time . when the bill go through , we will significantly improve this market and leasehold , and significantly change rent charge , so that people who want to buy their house and have the benefit of owner - occupation — we want to do all we can to empower people — gain real control over their future . we look forward to colleague support the bill as it go through its final stage in the house in the come week . question put and agree to . house adjourn .