thank you , madam deputy speaker . may i start by congratulate you on your election , and on take up the chair today ? may i also congratulate those on the government front bench on take up the burden of ministerial office ? i wish they the good of success with that . it be with no little pride and a great sense of honour that i rise to give my maiden speech in this house . i be indebted to my constituent for send i to this place , and i will do my utmost to ensure that i repay the faith that they have put in i . it be a particular pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech over the last few day . i would like to commend the hon . member for surrey heath ( dr pinkerton ) for his magnificent speech . his constituency be a place that i hold to dear to i , have train at the royal military academy , and i wish he well in his stewardship of it . i think he will make a great contribution to this house . my constituency be solihull west and shirley . like many other , it be newly create follow the boundary review . while it be very much base on the old solihull seat , the ward of silhill and elmdon have move into the new meriden and solihull east constituency . in return , blythe ward have move into mine , join olton , lyndon , st alphege and shirleys west , south and east . therefore , i have not one but , technically , two predecessor . as i have allude to , blythe ward be represent in the last parliament by my hon . friend the member for meriden and solihull east ( saqib bhatti ) . i be delighted to join he in this place , and i thank he for his support and help over the last few week . julian knight serve as the member of parliament for solihull for nine year . he give particular service as chair of the culture , media and sport committee . i be sure that hon . member on all side of the house will join i in wish the whole knight family the very good for the future . i also pay tribute to julian ’s predecessor in this place . lorely burt be still hold in great affection by resident , who remember she as a proactive constituency member of parliament . the late john taylor , an avuncular man , be solihull through and through , and he be fondly remember for his dedication to public service . his widow , ann , be still a stalwart of the local community . before john come a fellow member of the bar , percy grieve qc . famously , percy once have the campaign slogan " grieve for solihull " . i be delighted to tell the house that there be no need to grieve for solihull any long . for those hon . and right hon . member who have not have the good fortune of visit solihull west and shirley , we may be compact , be a mere 40 sq km in area , but we pack a good punch . we be a diverse community , welcome to all . we benefit from our confluence of culture , which serve to create a great societal bond . together , we be great than the sum of our part . i be particularly proud that several thousand hong kong british national overseas have choose to make the area their home . the land now form solihull west and shirley be once cover by the ancient forest of arden on the bank of the river blythe . the early settlement in the area can be date back to the iron age . the density of the forest of arden be such that even the romans find it impenetrable , for throughout the roman occupation of these isle it be hold that no roman road pass through it . by the time of the anglo - saxons , the forest of arden be part of the kingdom of mercia . a clearing in the wood be establish , and the settlement of the manor of ulverlei be found . it be here that the town of shirley now sit , the name shirley mean a bright clearing . the town of solihull be think to take its name from the site of the stunning arden church of saint alphege , which can be date back to the 13th century and be build on a mound of marl . this soily hill give rise to the name solihull . of course , over the year the two town have change somewhat . they be a bustling centre for business and enterprise . we be the home of the touchwood centre , we have fantastic business such as gymshark , and nearby jaguar land rover remain a significant employer for many of my constituent , and a major economic driver for the local area . we be bless with good and outstanding school , provide our young people with the skill and opportunity to succeed in life . through the enterprise and leadership of the local council and the former west midlands mayor , andy street , there have be an ambitious brownfield - first housing policy , deliver sustainable home for the future while protect the green belt . however , while many will associate solihull west and shirley with prosperity , there be pocket of deprivation , and i will therefore work tirelessly to ensure that those part of the constituency have the investment and opportunity to shine in the year to come . when you first enter this place , it be impossible not to be strike by the history that come before you . it make you reflect upon your own place in the annal of time . there have be many doctor who have enter this house before . there be several of we in this new intake alone . there have be a number of soldier who have stand up and serve again — indeed , there be almost a platoon of we enter the house for the first time . and as for lawyer — well , frankly , we could be an extension of the inns of court . however , it strike i the first time i enter this place that there be a chance that i might be the first member to have do all three . and that rather flatter the ego . well , how wrong could i have be ? like the bubble burst in the back garden by my young son george , my illusion be quickly burst . a former member for wimbledon , charles goodson - wickes , have do all this before , and he add be chairman of the countryside alliance to boot . so , alas , my place in the history book will have to wait , for the time be . i do hope , however , that my professional experience will allow i to contribute effectively to this place on behalf of the people of solihull west and shirley — by be a critical friend on the issue of health and social care , so that we improve patient outcome ; by protect the rule of law and ensure access to justice ; and by uphold the military covenant , and continue the commendable work of the former member for plymouth , moor view , who be sadly no long in this place , and other to ensure that britain be the good place in the world to be a veteran . i be painfully aware of the good fortune and opportunity i have have in life . i have benefit from a love family and be provide with the opportunity to fulfil my potential . sadly , that be not the case for all , so during the course of my time in this house i will seek to champion the early year agenda , so that we give young people the good chance in life . i will also seek to work with member from across the house to improve send provision in this country , so that we can move the conversation away from the level of disability and focus instead on the level of intervention , and ensure that every child can access the curriculum and achieve their potential , irrespective of the hurdle they face , because it be only by invest in our young people that we invest in our society . those of we who choose to enter the political arena have a duty to conduct ourselves with tolerance , dignity and respect . these be the value that the public rightly expect of we , and in this , my maiden speech , i make a promise to my constituent that these be the value that i will uphold for as long as they be gracious enough to send i to this place . i congratulate you , madam deputy speaker , on be elevate to the position of first deputy chairman of ways and means . those of we who know you be very pleased to see you in that position . i believe that you will be impartial and fair to everyone , as you always be . i look forward to you call i to speak and intervene in debate on many occasion . what a pleasure it be to see the ministers in their place . the secretary of state be here early , and the minister of state , the hon . member for newcastle upon tyne north ( catherine mckinnell ) , be here now ; i look forward to she sum up . the contribution of the shadow secretary of state , the right hon . member for east hampshire ( damian hinds ) , be also excellent . we have have wonderful maiden speech today from conservative , liberal democrat and labour members . the house have be enrich by the combination of contribution , include the intervention of the hon . member for lagan valley ( sorcha eastwood ) , who will make her maiden speech at a later stage , as other member from northern ireland have . i especially thank the hon . member for harlow ( chris vince ) , whose story about young carer resonate with i in particular , as i have have an interest in this area over the year . i think it resonate with everyone , to be truthful , but it resonate with i because i know young carer in my constituency . perhaps they be not the good student , but they have reason for it . the story that he tell may be 10 year old , but it be still relevant today , and i thank he for it . it be so important that we have debate on education . i have say in this place so many time that our young people truly be the future . to ensure that they have the tool need to succeed , we have to make difficult decision . education be devolve in northern ireland , so ministers here do not have respond on it . they do not have to take any notice , and they do not need to say to themselves , " i must reply to the hon . member . " they might wish to say something , but they do not have any responsibility for our education . however , i want to give a northern ireland perspective , as i always do , and make two point . there be so many opportunity out there for young people . some may know what route they want to take in life , and for those who do not , there be other option . education may not be everybody ’s option , as the hon . member for harlow say , but there be other thing that we need to do through education as well . minister will no doubt take that on board . whether in employment , further education or apprenticeship , there be opportunity for people to avail themselves of . furthermore , i be a big supporter of work experience and the prospect that it can bring for young people , especially in their education and future employment . it can give young people a taste for work and the possibility that it can lead they to . i try to offer it every year in my office , as i do when i be a member of the legislative assembly and when i have my own business . two of my young staff member , one aged 29 and one aged 24 , both do their work experience in my office , one back in 2012 and the other in 2017 . we never realise that they would one day end up work for i . they go and do another job in between , but end up come back to i . whether they think i be a soft touch , or what it be , i be not quite sure . i be sure that they do not think that — the fact be that they love what we do in the office . like other elect to this house , my whole life have be about help people and make their life well . that be our job . it do not matter what political party we be in ; we have to try to do that in every part of life . year later , an opportunity come up for new staff , and know the skillset that those two people be able to bring through their work experience , they be able to come into the job like they have always be there . that stick in my mind . whether it be in aerospace ; healthcare ; science , technology , engineering and math ; government ; law ; medium ; trade such as mechanic or plumbing , and so on — the list be endless — it be no secret that more need to be do on funding for the devolved nation . it be reveal last year that northern ireland student number be reduce with funding cut . indeed , it have be indicate that the teaching grant for northern ireland ’s university will be reduce by 10 % to save around £ 14 million . it be also plan that funding for further education college would be cut by 4 % to save an additional £ 9 million . in the limited time that i have leave , i want briefly to discuss the opportunity that apprenticeship provide for young people . i mention early that not every person can have a civil service job or be in university or another form of education , but they can have opportunity out there in society . our university be incredible , but there be young people out there who do not see university as a path for they to go down . the number of people age 16 to 24 pursue an apprenticeship have be increase consistently since 2013 , showcase how the world of work can provide opportunity for young people who perhaps do not want to go to university . apprenticeship be provide in so many industry ; there be always something that can be find to give young people the good start on their employment path . the issue always lie with funding , and that be why it be so important that these issue be represent . northern ireland have suffer for too long from ill thought - out budget and lack of funding . it be time for our word to be listen to and for budget to be reconsider for the betterment of young people and their future . i believe , as everybody participate in this debate do , that our young people be the future , and i want they to get many more opportunity than i get . we be responsible for ensure that education and employment opportunity be available to all young people across this united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , because , as you know , madam deputy speaker , we be always well together . thank you , madam deputy speaker , and llongyfarchiadau , as we say in wales . it be wonderful to have you preside over my maiden speech . i also thank the hon . member for strangford ( jim shannon ) ; it be a pleasure to follow he . i congratulate member on the amazing maiden speech we have hear this afternoon . i particularly enjoy the story of such an inspirational math teacher from my hon . friend the member for harlow ( chris vince ) . i be really pleased to speak in this debate about education , which be so important . i be a governor at my son ’s primary school in monmouthshire , cross ash , as well as at his secondary school . it be so important , as we come to the end of term , to say thank you to all the governor , teacher and headteacher at all the school in monmouthshire . i think i be the first of the new welsh mp to make their maiden speech , so i hope i do our country proud . i want to give one more congratulation , to eluned morgan ms , who have just be announce as our new welsh labour leader — another strong woman lead we in the labour party . i have the honour to represent the beautiful , glorious county of monmouthshire , and i be its first ever woman mp . as former chief executive of the women ’s equality network wales , where i campaign to get more woman into politic , i can finally boast that i be practise what i preach . i would like to pay tribute not to one predecessor or to two , but to three . david t. c. davies , the former monmouth constituency mp , serve in four parliaments . despite our fundamental political difference , we have one thing in common : our child go to the same fabulous school , monmouth comprehensive . i say diolch yn fawr iawn to david for his dedication to public service and to his constituent . with the redrawn boundary , monmouthshire have inherit part of the newport east constituency : caldicot , magor , rogiet and undy . that mean that i owe a huge debt of thank to my hon . friend the member for newport east ( jessica morden ) for her legacy of service to those community , and for the exceptional generosity and support that she and her team have give i , both during the campaign and as i start my journey in this place . she be a brilliant mp , and if i become half the mp she be , i know i will be do exceptionally well . technically , i have a third predecessor , because monmouthshire be a constituency many year ago , and its last mp be john rolls , a local man who take his seat in 1880 . my hon . friend the member for derby north ( catherine atkinson ) mention rolls - royce early , and i will mention it too . rolls be father not only to charles rolls of rolls - royce fame , but to eleanor shelley - rolls , a founder of the women ’s engineering society , an early campaigner for the electrification of britain , and founder , 100 year ago , of the atlanta company , an engineering business with a real difference — it only employ woman . that combination of the technological cutting edge and socially progressive view still represent some of the good of monmouthshire today . monmouthshire , particularly the magor technology corridor , be in many way a 21st - century economy . we be also proud of our agricultural and farming tradition . some 80 % of the land in monmouthshire be dedicate to farming , much of it carry out on small family farm . as a smallholder and a farmer ’s daughter , i know the joy and the huge challenge of rural life , as well as the vital role play in food production and environmental stewardship by our skilled farming family . monmouthshire be also a haven for tourist , home to the renowned abergavenny food festival , the wye valley national landscape , part of the bannau brycheiniog national park , and the offa ’s dyke long - distance path , not to mention our incredible historic border castle . i say to members : please come and visit in the summer holiday . we have raglan castle , grosmont castle and many more . monmouthshire have a proud history of fighting for democracy , as home to the chartist movement of the 1830 . the chartists make shocking and radical demand — how very dare they demand universal suffrage , secret ballot , salary for mps?—so that ordinary people , not just the super - rich , could enter parliament . those be now the pillar on which our democracy be base . the same spirit be alive and kick in a constituency where , in 2024 , i be proud to say turnout be 30 % high than the uk average . as a border county , monmouthshire be instinctively a place of welcome . one of the early action in 2022 of our incoming labour - run county council , on which i have be proud to serve , be a formal application to become a county of sanctuary , welcome and celebrate the contribution of refugee and asylum seeker . perhaps it be not entirely a coincidence that many of our leader in monmouthshire be woman , from our inspirational council leader — another female first — to the three woman who bring such tenacity and passion to run our chamber of commerce in monmouth , chepstow and abergavenny . despite its great strength , monmouthshire be , i be sorry to say , one of the most unequal county in wales , with great wealth and great poverty exist side by side . as its mp , my first priority will be to support the government ’s drive for economic growth and keep household bill down so that we reduce that inequality . talk of the drive for equality , i be only here because of the incredible woman who come before i and because of the support i have have from far too many individual woman to mention . i must shout out about the work of mentor programme such as the fabian women ’s network mentor programme , the labour women ’s network , and organisation such as elect her and 50:50 parliament . it be thank to they that we now have a house in which 40 % of mp be woman . we still have a long way to get to 50 % and true equality , so i pledge , as my second priority , to continue my work to ensure that we do get an equal parliament . i will work with every single relevant secretary of state and every parliamentarian across the house to ensure that we reduce all the inequality that woman face , from end the gender pay gap , to halve violence against woman and push forward the menopause mandate campaign . i will , of course , do all that i can to support monmouthshire ’s fantastic charity and community group , from cyfannol , a charity work to support those experience violence against woman , to reach out , a group support those with addiction . as a keen environmentalist , i will do everything i can to ensure we champion our environment and our river , include the river wye and the river usk , which flow through our beautiful county . the people of monmouthshire have make it clear that they expect i to work cross - border and cross - party , with all the regulator , campaigner and action group , to bring our river back to full health . monmouthshire be back on the westminster map for the first time in a century and a half . my determination be to make sure that the legacy of this government for monmouthshire be a more equal , more prosperous and greener future . thank you , madam deputy speaker . may i warmly congratulate you on take up your position and warmly welcome the secretary of state and her ministerial team to their position , too ? i express my deep condolence to my hon . friend the member for montgomeryshire and glyndŵr ( steve witherden ) for his loss . i congratulate my hon . friend the member for birmingham selly oak ( al carns ) on his sobering and powerful word , and other colleague across the chamber on their speech today . i start by thank my family for their love and forbearance in recent month , my labour and other friend for their support , and the people of rugby and the village for give i the honour of represent my constituency , which have be my home for the last 17 year . as the mp represent the only seat with a sport name after it , i hope that the house will indulge i the occasional rugby analogy . the rugby ball have be pass to i , notwithstanding a couple of minor maul during the election campaign , which i overcome . i want to pay tribute to mark pawsey , my predecessor , who run with the ball — literally and metaphorically — as a member of the commons and lords rugby team . mark be an honourable , decent and kind man who serve the house with distinction , work tirelessly for his constituent and promote the game of rugby internationally . i also put on record my respect for the former labour member andy king , whose distinguished service continue to inspire i . rugby be a market town that have grow rapidly in recent year , surround by many small village — too numerous to mention one by one — set in the beautiful warwickshire countryside . to the north of the constituency be bulkington , which some say be one of the large village in england , although my right hon . friend the member for kingston upon hull north and cottingham ( dame diana johnson ) may disagree . rugby ’s population balloon when the oxford canal be construct in the 1770 , and the railway hastened industrialisation . i say to any front benchers listen that be on the west coast main line can very much hasten any ministerial visit that they may or may not want to make . [ interruption . ] no , stop at rugby . the confluence of the m1 , the m6 and the m45 near rugby place we firmly in the logistic golden triangle . notwithstanding this logistical good fortune , rugby ’s potential lie primarily with its people . we have be bless , and still be , by people who innovate , challenge norm and think creatively . let we take sport : a plaque at rugby school record that , in 1823 , the legendary local schoolboy william webb ellis , " with a fine disregard for the rule of football , take the ball in his arm and run with it " . although my connection with the game of rugby as a player be , i confess , somewhat underwhelming , i be proud to say that my dad , who be in the gallery , play for england as a schoolboy . i will not join the house rugby team , but i might join a reform house rock band . i be acutely aware of how dangerous such statement can be , give that yesterday i wander innocently into a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group , and wander out slightly bewildered as vice - chair . as a classically train violinist and semi - retired rock musician , i be glad to represent a constituency fill to the brim with talented people . i will bang the drum and strum a chord for they . rugby be the birthplace of the poet rupert brooke , whose word " that there ’ some corner of a foreign field that be forever england " epitomise a quiet , contemplative english patriotism . we have spawn famous rock band and musician , from spacemen 3 to james morrison . the creative art scene be thrive , with fantastic local band of all genre , an orchestra , dance school , rugby theatre for amateur dramatic , gallery and much more . the sporting scene be vibrant , with several rugby football and football team , and a plethora of club in the town and village , where selfless volunteer offer pretty much every sport to the community . rugby also have a proud track record of technological innovation . as hon . member get on a jet plane this week , they should think of rugby , as the prototype of the first jet engine be build by sir frank whittle at the british thomson - houston work in the town in 1937 . at the same site a decade later , a young hungarian refugee dennis gabor invent holography . i live in hope that holographic technology advance so far that , one day , mp can be beam into multiple location , to assist with our busy diary . until recently , dozen of giant mast form part of the world ’s most powerful radio transmitter . in 1927 , the site be instrumental in the first transatlantic telephone call . i believe in maintain the strong possible transatlantic alliance , so i be proud that rugby play its part in deepen the tie between our two great nation . that pioneer industrial and scientific prowess persist . today , ge vernova build world - lead advanced generator , include for royal navy vessel . at ansty park we have the manufacturing technology centre , the london electric vehicle company — which make the electric cab in which many of we newbie may have be move around in recent day — and fanuc uk . when i visit the mtc recently with my right hon . friend the deputy prime minister and the west midlands mayor , it strike i that in order to unleash potential , we need partnership between business , the education and skill sector , local and national government , trade union and much more . we meet apprentice , beam with pride at their achievement and in anticipation of a bright future . we also need investment , most importantly in education . i be therefore delighted that the king ’s speech include measure to raise standard in education , reform the apprenticeship levy and establish skills england . have visit so many of our excellent state secondary school and the brilliant local college , i be confident that the people of our area will do the modern - day equivalent of invent a sport , design an engine or write an immortal poem . rugby be a place that be at ease with itself . we be a very diverse town , and that be unequivocally a huge strength . we learn from one another , celebrate one another ’s tradition , break down barrier and focus on our common interest , something epitomise by the late dr james shera mbe , a mentor of mine who be sadly miss across the constituency . our charitable sector be strong . i will take the liberty of mention two local charity that inspire i : the our jay foundation , which install defibrillator ; and back and forth mens mental health , an issue close to my heart . the church , temple and faith group be at the heart of our community . the street pastors , who i shadow on a late night shift , show kindness in action — kindness be a much underrated virtue . the people of rugby and the village be compassionate . they warmly welcome refugee from ukraine . i pay tribute to the thriving rugby ukrainian community , its ukrainian member bravely forge their new life away from home , and all from the constituency who be help they . the benn partnership ’s " meet and eat " on fridays , cater for by recent immigrant who not only cook the food but be learn english there , show our cohesion . our community invest in our young people , with fabulous youth centre , such as hill street and the bradby club . there be too many voluntary group and organisation for i to mention ; i simply salute they all . we thrive more when we work together and when the government be truly an enabler . i want to put on record my appreciation as a councillor of the work of council officer and all public servant in serve our community in difficult circumstance . i campaign to become a labour candidate use the phrase " together we can " . i believe that be the only approach that will truly unleash the potential of the constituency . we now have a brilliantly lead labour council , a labour mp and a labour government commit to empower place with a strong vision . i will do all i can to bring together people in this constituency , urban or rural , factory or farm worker , whatever their background , to tackle the problem we face , whether the lack of infrastructure such as gp surgery , the need for more service at the superb hospital of st cross , insufficient affordable and social home , town centre regeneration or the need to make our street safe . in do this , i be inspire by the late , great ann clwyd , for whom i work , and the late , great frank field , with whom i work . the hon . member ’s experience of be a professor will be very helpful to this place . my hon . friend the member for solihull west and shirley ( dr shastri - hurst ) have significant experience of three separate career , and i know he will be a strong advocate for his community . i applaud his focus on early year . i now come to the hon . member for harlow ( chris vince ) . i be a councillor in the neighbouring area before i come to this place , so i know your patch well . your experience as a teacher—[interruption . ] the hon . member ’s experience as a teacher will be extremely helpful . he highlight the important issue of young carer . that be probably below the radar for many of we as constituency members , and we all need to spend a bit more time focus on it to ensure that our community be support properly . i now come to the hon . member for monmouthshire ( catherine fookes ) . i applaud her ambition to have 50:50 in this place . when i speak to my niece , and indeed my nephew , it be always a disappointment to we that while 51 % of our great country consist of woman , only about a third of my colleague be woman — although the proportion be probably great now — and , similarly , many boardroom throughout the country be still very male - dominate . the hon . member for derby south ( baggy shanker ) talk about great british railways . as my in - law continually say , derby remain the centre of the united kingdom geographically , and i be surprised that neither of the new derby members mention that . as for the hon . member for folkestone and hythe ( tony vaughan ) , his filipino heritage be a matter of passion and importance . when i be grow up and look at parliament tv — well , i do n’t really , but let we suppose that i do — this place do not reflect what i think the country do , and today it do . we be on a journey towards get well in that regard , and with his help and , hopefully , subsequent general election and by - election — and , also hopefully , with a few more member elect to my side — this place will become truly reflective . the hon . member for dartford ( jim dickson ) speak about the rolling stones . music be a strong theme in parliament ; he will figure that out in the bar and the all - party parliamentary group . his significant experience in local government will be very helpful . i offer the hon . member for montgomeryshire and glyndŵr ( steve witherden ) my sincere condolence about his mother . we realise that we be all human . share that personal background with this place humanise we and make sure that we all have " more in common " . all of we will have have a difficult general election , and i hope that the tone of politic return to what i think it be mean to be about 20 year ago , when politician be hold in high esteem . when i speak to individual member of my community , they still seem to consider politician to be public servant , but unfortunately social medium may not always reflect that and unfortunately you will all experience that ; so make sure you communicate with colleague , because they will all be go through it as well . the hon . member for aylesbury ( laura kyrke - smith ) speak about roald dahl . i have the poem " if " on my wall at home , and i read it every single day . we have a really rich heritage in our great country , and when member talk about thing that inspire they , it will only inspire the next generation to be inquisitive . i hope that stoke mandeville will be improve , because it be a hospital that i will have to use , if and when necessary . i be conscious of the time and that the minister will need to say a few word , so i be go to wrap up my comment on maiden speech . i know that i have not address every single one , but i will buy member a drink at the bar in the next few day , week and year . please do enjoy this job . it be the good job in the world , and you really be life - change . on that note , i welcome those on the government front bench to what be a phenomenal brief , and i look forward to support they where they be change people ’s live for the well . thank you , madam deputy speaker . i warmly welcome you to your place in the chair , and i warmly welcome the hon . member for south west hertfordshire ( mr mohindra ) to his place . i also welcome the shadow secretary of state , whom i previously shadow . i thank hon . member who have make contribution to this afternoon ’s debate , and pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech today . they do themselves and their community proud . i pay tribute to my hon . friend the member for folkestone and hythe ( tony vaughan ) , the first member of filipino heritage to stand in this chamber ; my hon . friend the member for north west cambridgeshire ( sam carling ) , the young member of the house , who speak about his education , which be fairly recent ; my hon . friend the member for birmingham selly oak ( al carns ) , who have rightly be recognise in this place for his experience ; and my hon . friend the member for rugby ( john slinger ) , who be forgive for all his rugby analogy after make an excellent speech . in this house , we come together with a common goal : to give every child the good start in life and equip they with an education that set they up for their life . we be the department for opportunity at the department for education . we be bring education back to the centre of national life again , and we will work tirelessly to spread opportunity across our country , so that every child can thrive in a school with high and rise standard , and with a broad and rich curriculum that they can enjoy . like every parent , i want that for my child , and i be so pleased that we have a labour government who be ready to deliver it . i know what a brilliant school and education can mean . unlike my hon . friend the member for southampton itchen ( darren paffey ) , who make an excellent maiden speech today , i be not one of three darren , but i be a sacred heart girl , and i be not the only one in this parliament . the parliamentary labour party boast three alumnus of my old school , sacred heart catholic high school in newcastle ; my hon . friend the members for newcastle upon tyne east and wallsend ( mary glindon ) and for cramlington and killingworth ( emma foody ) go there , too . my hon . friend the member for derby north ( catherine atkinson ) , who make an outstanding maiden speech today , also attend a sacred heart school . it mean that there be now as many state - educate sacred heart girl in the house of commons as there be old etonian boy — a tangible demonstration of the radical redistribution of opportunity that this labour government represent . my hon . friend the member for paisley and renfrewshire south ( johanna baxter ) give an account of her school trip to parliament , which remind i of my own trip at the age of 17 , when i get in trouble for sit down on these benches . clearly , such trip work to break down barrier to opportunity . the journey start in a child ’ early year , when their development and education begin . under successive conservative government , however , the attainment gap have widen . it be now some year since i serve on the treasury committee , but i still recall our inquiry into childcare as a part of national infrastructure . it be ground - breaking at the time and acknowledge that childcare be a fundamental service to our economy ; it be not a " nice to have " . it be fundamental to allow parent to work long hour to provide for their family , and it be fundamental to people ’s life chance . that be why this government will deliver 3,000 more primary school - base nursery , make they widely accessible to parent and unlock opportunity for our young . in answer to the shadow secretary of state ’s question early , that will be deliver in partnership with the sector to ensure that it meet the need of child and parent . we know that childcare need do not end when school start . when a child move up to primary school , in england , they will benefit from the roll - out of free breakfast club in every primary school in england . this will drive up attainment , improve behaviour and attendance , and enable parent to start work on time and support their family . it will set child up for the day and set they up to achieve , because it be as much about the club as it be about the breakfast . be in the classroom at the start of the day matter . school have a unique power to open up enormous opportunity for their pupil , with teacher and support staff who make a mark on every child ’s life . that include support child with special educational need and disability to flourish , but across that system we have to acknowledge the many challenge that we face . our building be substandard , our child be too often unhappy in school and our support staff feel underappreciated . we have to do well . so many member today have touch on the crisis in support for those with special educational need and disability , include my hon . friend the member for dulwich and west norwood ( helen hayes ) , who i know have work tirelessly on this issue for many year , and my hon . friend the member for dartford ( jim dickson ) , who also speak passionately today . this government will help school to take a community - wide approach to send , improve their capability to accommodate pupil in mainstream setting and support they to flourish . last week , i visit the brilliant croftway academy in northumberland . it demonstrate how child of different ability and need can have the high standard of education in a mainstream setting , but we also need to ensure that special school can cater for those with the most complex need . for those struggle with the pressure of school life , this labour government will fund mental health support in every secondary school and in every community so that they can access support before problem escalate . i know that mental health be a priority for many in this place , as be powerfully describe by my hon . friend the member for aylesbury ( laura kyrke - smith ) in her speech . as shadow schools minister , i hear many story of decision be take about our school that just do not factor in the need of community . there be delay that turn to disappointment and frustration . i have see this in my own constituency with a lack of proper planning cause chaos to school admission in gosforth this year , and countless story of failure be replicate across the country . so under labour , school will need to co - operate with their local authority on school admission , on send inclusion and on place planning . no more of the chaos that we have see over the last few year . we want child to leave school with the skill and knowledge to set they up for life . that mean a broad and balanced curriculum that encourage they to try new thing , ask question , express themselves and be creative while also gain an excellent foundation in reading , writing and math . so we be establish an expert - lead review on the curriculum and will collaborate with the sector to allow school , teacher , parent and student to contribute and to plan ahead . on the question of remove exemption for private school , which have be raise , this change will enable vital investment in more teacher and improve nursery provision . i commend the contribution from my hon . friend the member for harlow ( chris vince ) , a former math teacher . while we be delighted that he be in his place , we need to ensure that we have more math teacher in our state school . my hon . friend the member for monmouthshire ( catherine fookes ) speak about be a school governor , and we need more of those too . my hon . friend the member for montgomeryshire and glyndŵr ( steve witherden ) give a powerful testimony to his dear late mother . we share his grief and we share her pride . ultimately , education be about prepare child and young people for life and give they the skill they need to get on , but these opportunity do not end at the school gate . for too long , post-16 education have be poorly match to the ambition of young people and the need of business and employer , allow talent to go untapped and the economy to flag . that be why , early this week , we announce skills england , a transformative new body to match post-16 education to the need of the economy . by deploy skill investment strategically , we will bring employment opportunity to the part of the country where young people need a break and business need their skilled labour . my hon . friend the member for derby south ( baggy shanker ) speak powerfully about his apprenticeship and his passion for ensure those opportunity for other . my hon . friend the member for milton keynes central ( emily darlington ) speak about the need to not have to leave the place you love to get on in life . my hon . friend the member for gravesham ( dr sullivan ) want to see a curriculum for life . my hon . friend the member for birmingham selly oak have rightly be recognise , as i mention early . all of this work will require a partnership approach . none of the challenge we face can be address by one person or one body alone . that be why we be reset the relationship between government and the sector . we be listen to professional . we be learn from good practice . we be work to improve standard across the board . it be also why i want to take this opportunity today to pay tribute to all those who work in our school , to thank they and to wish they a restful and restorative summer break . under this labour government , neither a person ’s place of birth nor the income of their parent will determine what they can achieve , how they find fulfilment , how they discover their skill and talent , or how they grow in confidence , because break down the barrier to opportunity be labour ’s guide focus . it be the job of this government , and it be one that we be commit to deliver . question put and agree to . resolve , that this house have consider education and opportunity .