the holy grail seek by all government , of whichever hue , be economic growth . i therefore think it important for we to look through the lens of economic growth , and to think about whether the bill drive it . i recall from my time in committee , where i spend many hour listen to the oratory of the hon . member for mid buckinghamshire ( greg smith ) , that we speak a great deal about productivity and whether it would be drive by the bill . i have speak about the possible impact of the bill to people in my community , include representative of enlightened hr and alison bennett , a human resource consultant , for whom its destination be very welcome . indeed , we have hear from many other people who have be consult that the bill ’s destination and aspiration be correct and appropriate , but it be a question of how we get there and whether the government have achieve the right balance between employer and employee . that be important , because the last thing we want the bill to do be have a chilling effect on the economy . we be only too well aware that the national insurance contribution that be set to kick in next month be already have that negative impact , and we do not want this well - intend bill to echo that far . there be 250 amendment before we at this late stage of the legislation . the minister say that that be due to level of consultation and so forth and should be welcome , and that we be trim our sail , but if that be the case , and if the minister be in such listen mode in committee , why do the government accept no opposition amendment whatsoever ? i should welcome some reflection from the minister when he wind up the debate . as a liberal democrat , and the liberal democrat spokesman for the department for work and pensions , i can say that carer be at the front and centre of our world . what be effectively the population of portsmouth—200,000 people a year , or 600 a day — walk away from the employment market to take up caring occupation and , in many instance , support family member . that have an £ 8 billion annual impact on our economy , which leave we less productive . i hope that the government will give serious thought to our amendment to make leave for carer a pay opportunity , because give they that flexibility and that breathe space would unlock more people for our employment market . our proposal to make care a protect characteristic be extremely important . we have already hear about harassment and discrimination in connection with other part of the bill , but this would help immensely to support carer . double the pay of those take adoption leave be also important , as be support for people who take caring role such as kinship care . i hope that the ministers will take those family role into account .