i thank the shadow minister for his response , and welcome he to his place . i know that he will want to be a keen champion for the early year sector , and i be glad to hear he welcome the update that i have give to the house . as i say in my statement , labour be committed to the delivery of expand entitlement across government . the last government leave significant challenge , but we be not shirk that responsibility . with labour , the early year sector can rest assure that we will be work tirelessly to deliver a wide sea change in early education , as well as high and rise standard throughout the education system . let i now deal with some of the hon . gentleman ’s specific point . it be clear to i from my consultation and engagement with parent and provider so far that we have inherit a pledge without a plan , and the consequence of that be inherit delivery challenge relate to workforce and place . i appreciate the point that the hon . gentleman make about the workforce ; i believe by reset the relationship with the workforce , we can have a much more positive relationship with the sector in the future . over 300,000 child have benefit from the entitlement offer since september this year , which demonstrate that we be actively engage and work with parent to promote opportunity to take up the offer . we will continue to do so . on school - base nursery , the pilot during the testing phase be for 300 place from april . our ambition be for 3,000 place over the course of this parliament . i look forward to work with the hon . member constructively to bring about the change that early year education so desperately need . i thank my hon . friend for his question . i be absolutely delighted to hear of his enthusiasm for the scheme , which will make a huge difference to community up and down our country . we be start a test - and - learn phase in april ; the roll - out will be in september . we want to learn from that approach , and i would be delighted to work with he on this matter .